The editorial office was "surprised and disappointed" by the decision of the commission, which "actually refused to analyze the charges" and "turned the session into a trial of the victims."


	 The editorial office was "surprised and disappointed" by the decision of the commission, which "actually refused to analyze the charges" and "turned the session into a trial of the victims."




	 We consider the approach of commission members, for whom corporate ethics are more important than justice, as destructive.



                                                                                     
                        

                                                                                     
                        

                                                                                     
                        

                                                                                     
                        

                                                                                     
                        

                                                                                     
                        

                                                                                     
                        

                                                                                     
                        

                                                                                     
                        

                                                                                     
                        

                                                                                     
                        

                                                                                     
                        

                             
                                                                                

                                At that, the wife of the Kirov Region’s former governor considers the move to be groundless. According to her, the spouse's health has not recovered.                            

                             
                                                                                

                             
                                                                                

                             
                                                                                

                                The incident occurred on the outskirts of Grozny by the Lenta supermarket.                            

                             
                                                                                

                             
                                                                                

                             
                                                                                

                             
                                                                                

                             
                                                                                

                             
                                                                                

                                 Boris Titov sent a list to the presidential administration on February 4 naming 17 entrepreneurs who are hiding from Russian justice in other countries, but would like to come back.

                            

                             
                                                                                

                             
                                                                                

                             
                                                                                

                                People on the Internet offered to make 10-year-old Tanya Lozova the new Governor of the Moscow region.                            

                             
                                                                                

                             
                                                                                
State Duma revokes accreditation of media which boycotted Parliament amid sexual harassment scandal  

                             
                                                                                

                                The unfinished building will be transferred to the implementation of urban programs, including the renovation program.                            

                             
                                                                                

                             
                                                                                

                             
                                                                                

                                Officer of the FSB in Moscow and the region Pyotr Koryugin participated in the extortion of 2 million rubles ($34.800) from an Azerbaijani citizen, and he warned a drug dealer about a forthcoming search for 300.000 rubles ($5200).                            

                             
                                                                                

                             
                                                                                

                             
                                                                                

                                In the near future, the issue of preventive measure for Vadim Varshavsky will be resolved.                            

                             
                                                                                

                             
                                                                                

                             
                                                                                

                                The editorial office was "surprised and disappointed" by the decision of the commission, which "actually refused to analyze the charges" and "turned the session into a trial of the victims."                            

                             
                                                                                

                             
                                                                                