The video, taken from inside the Volvo XC90 sport utility vehicle that Uber has used for testing, shows the vehicle driving along a dark road when a woman walking a bicycle across the road appears in the headlights.
Police have released few details about the accident that occurred on Sunday night in Tempe, Arizona, a suburb of Phoenix, while the SUV was driving in autonomous mode.
Uber suspended its self-driving testing in North America after the incident and federal safety regulators are conducting their own probe.
A photo released by safety regulators on Tuesday showed that the impact occurred on the right side of the vehicle.
The video also shows the driver at the wheel, who appears to be looking down throughout most of the video.
"The video is disturbing and heartbreaking to watch, and our thoughts continue to be with Elaine's loved ones," Uber said in a statement.
"Our cars remain grounded, and we're assisting local, state and federal authorities in any way we can."
The video is likely to be a key part of investigations of Uber's self-driving car technology and whether it was ready for testing on public roads.
Although the exact specifics of Uber's technology are not known, self-driving cars generally use a combination of sensors, including radar and light-based Lidar, to identify objects around the vehicle, including potential obstacles coming into range.
One question on regulators' minds would be why the sensors did not pick up on the presence of Ms Herzberg, who would ostensibly have already crossed three lanes of traffic before arriving in the path of the Uber vehicle.
ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.
New national security adviser John Bolton has a history of taking hardline positions on foreign policy — here's a snapshot of his views on some hot topics currently facing the White House.
This week we discovered Australians have shocking dental hygiene, artificial intelligence is being used to crack down on jaywalking, and there's another celebrity running for office. Let's see what you can remember.
The AFL's relentless course to national sporting pre-eminence has come at a cost, writes Richard Hinds. But fans still have hope thanks to a couple of fairytale flag wins.
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.