Catania officials seized the ship operated by Spanish non-governmental organization ProActiva Open Arms and placed three people, including the ship's captain, the on-board coordinator and ProActiva Open Arms' chief, under investigation.
"By requesting the Libyan coastguard to coordinate rescue and then impounding the NGO ship that refused to hand over the refugees and migrants, the Italian authorities have shown a reckless disregard for common decency," said Fotis Filippou, Amnesty International's campaigns director for Europe. "Rather than being criminalized for trying to save refugees and migrants who have fled horrific detention conditions and systematic human rights abuses in Libya, NGOs saving lives at sea should be supported."
SEOUL, March 20 (UPI) -- Road accidents in North Korea appear to have increased in recent years with members of the elite class driving recklessly or under influence.
LOS ANGELES, March 8 (UPI) -- The organs of North Korean refugees are being harvested in China, a North Korean defector resettled in the United States told UPI Tuesday.
SEOUL, March 20 (UPI) -- North Korea says now is only the beginning of inter-Korean relations as well as its ties with the United States, lashing out at critics in South Korea.
March 20 (UPI) -- The ashes of British physicist Stephen Hawking will be interred at Westminster Abbey near Isaac Newton's grave, representatives of the London church said.
March 20 (UPI) -- A report by Amnesty International accuses the Nigerian army of failing to act on warnings hours before Boko Haram militants abducted 110 girls last month.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
						
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
					