Facebook and its executives are getting destroyed after botching the handling of a massive data 'breach'
Facebook
  Founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg speaks on stage during the annual
  Facebook F8 developers conference in San Jose, California, U.S.,
  April 18, 2017.
Facebook executives waded into a firestorm of criticism
    on Saturday, after news reports revealed that a data firm with
    ties to the Trump campaign harvested private information from
    millions of Facebook users.
But critics were outraged by the response and accused
    the company of playing semantics and missing the
    point.

  The company quickly faced calls for increased regulation and
  oversight, and Massachusetts' Attorney General, Maura Healey,
  even announced an investigation.


  Sen. Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota also excoriated the company,
  demanding that Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg face the Senate
  Judiciary Committee for questioning.


  But much of the online outrage came after multiple Facebook
  executives took to Twitter to respond to the news reports,
  insisting the incident was not a "data breach."


  "The recent Cambridge Analytica stories by the NY Times and The
  Guardian are important and powerful, but it is incorrect to call
  this a "breach" under any reasonable definition of the term,"
  Stamos tweeted. "We can condemn this behavior while being
  accurate in our description of it."


  Twitter users were not satisfied with that response — many
  accused the executives of deliberately missing the point by
  focusing on semantics.


			Facebook's defense that Cambridge Analytica harvesting of FB user data from millions is not technically a "breach" is a more profound & damning statement of what's wrong with Facebook's business model than a "breach".		

			(b) the distinction you’re drawing between this infraction and a data breach is meaningful from your perspective, but not from ours. Facebook’s platform must protect us from predatory behavior or we can’t and shouldn’t trust the platform		
Trump-linked firm Cambridge Analytica collected personal information from 50 million Facebook users without permission
Trump says 'Mueller probe should never have been started' hours after his lawyer called for it to be shut down
Facebook and its executives are getting destroyed after botching the handling of a massive data 'breach'
Facebook and its executives are getting destroyed after botching the handling of a massive data 'breach'
The CEO of Arby's has begun turning around newly acquired Buffalo Wild Wings with a simple first step
The future of startups isn't in New York or California — and I'm investing $150 million to prove it