The Cambodian military will not investigate how an Australian was killed on a shooting range last week, after allegedly trying to "cover up" the nature of the incident.
The Phnom Penh Post newspaper quoted Defence Ministry spokesman Chhum Socheat as saying there would be no investigation as it was a "private case".
"Inside the unit, they are good friends with [the Australians]. They allowed them to visit privately," he told the Post.
The names of the Australians given to police at the scene — Aarou Sweeibo and Bra Davey — appear to be mistranslated or made up.
The Phnom Penh Post quoted Kampong Speu Governor Vy Samnang as saying that Prime Minister Hun Sen had offered his condolences to Malcolm Turnbull in Sydney on Friday morning, where both were attending the ASEAN summit.
"We do not comment on the detail of the conversations between leaders," a media adviser at the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet told the ABC.
In a separate statement, the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) said Cambodia's authoritarian slide had been discussed at the ASEAN summit.
"Australia remains deeply concerned by the narrowing of democratic space in Cambodia," a DFAT spokesperson said.
"We've made our views clear to the Cambodia Government through direct and regular representations, including at the ASEAN-Australia Special Summit in Sydney."
Just days after the deadly explosion on the Armoured Headquarters base in Kampong Speu, China and Cambodia began a joint military exercise in the province.
The pro-government Khmer Times newspaper reported that 600 Cambodian soldiers and 200 Chinese troops will fire 18,000 rounds of various ammunition during Golden Dragon 2018.
abruptly cancelling a planned joint exercise called Dawn Kouprey, saying it was too busy preparing for elections
Military exercises with the United States were also cancelled, part of Cambodia's wider shift of allegiance towards China.
Beijing has offered billions of dollars worth of grants and soft loans to Hun Sen, with none of the criticisms about human rights and democracy attached to "Western" aid.
In return, Cambodia has done China's bidding with ASEAN, especially on the issue of the disputed South China Sea.
ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.
If you're angry with Facebook and wondering if it's time to ditch Facebook from your life, you're not alone.
Most critics agree NATO needs to change so it remains an effective military force. Four experts weigh in on what needs reworking.
Education is more than a number, more than a ranking and more than a competition. So why are we still ranking students with an ATAR at the end of high schools?
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.