
                                                                                                        How 'Fauda' has romanticized the most repugnant aspects of Israel's occupation
                                                            

                                                                                                        Soldiers who killed unarmed Palestinian say in defense: Israel rarely charges for such offenses
                                                            

                                                                                                        Israeli president accused of treason after refusing to pardon Hebron shooter Azaria
                                                            
The military parole board on Monday ordered the so-called 'Hebron shooter' Elor Azaria's to be released after serving two-thirds of his sentence, the standard for prisoners with good behavior. He is slated to be released on May 10, 2018.
                                                    
Zagagi Pinhas added however that to this day, Azaria has shown no remorse, nor has he taken responsibility, for his action, which she stressed was premeditated, not based on error or negligence, and undermined the Israeli army’s moral strength.
                                                    
Azaria asked to be released immediately, ahead of Passover, saying, “The holiday of freedom is coming soon – let me go home.” He kept repeating that he shot a “terrorist murderer” because that is what he thought he was facing, and said that if he had known then what he knows now, he “would have acted otherwise.”
                                                    

                                    Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in
                                    accordance with site policy.
                                

									If you would like to be notified when your comment is published,
									please fill in your email address in the form below.
								
Arab Citizens Tried to Buy Land in This Israeli Town. The Mayor Halted the Sale to Uphold Its 'Jewish-Zionist Nature' 

				Iran, Syria and Saudi Arabia: Top Three Stunning Admissions From the Top U.S. General in the Middle East 
			

										A Jew, an Early Christian and a Roman Meet in Archaeological Park to Be Built on Evacuated Prison 
			

										'Man, She's Pretty': Behind Syrian Rebels' Gruesome Murder of a Female Kurdish Fighter 
			
Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.