A very active cyclone season is stepping up around the Australian tropics, with the Bureau of Meteorology monitoring four significant systems spiralling around the country's north.
BOM's radar includes severe Tropical Cyclone Marcus, Tropical Cyclone Nora off Australia's north west, and two tropical lows to the north east.
Marcus recorded maximum average wind speeds near its centre of 230 kilometres per hour and wind gusts of up to 325kph.
Wind speeds above this intensity have not been witnessed in Australian waters since Severe Tropical Cyclone Monica in 2006.
It was this morning downgraded to a category four and is set to further weaken before heading towards the WA coastline over the weekend.
Forecaster Jonathan How said the bureau was also following the development of Tropical Cyclone Nora in the Gulf of Carpentaria.
Nora formed early this morning in the Arafura Sea and is expected to intensify into a severe system over the weekend.
Currently a warning is in place for Elcho Island to Cape Shield in the Northern Territory and from Thursday Island to Cape Keerweer in Queensland on the western part of the peninsula coast.
Mr How said tropical cyclones in the Gulf were "known for being quite erratic" and there was still a bit of uncertainty about exactly where it would track.
He said it was expected to make landfall somewhere along the eastern or southern Queensland Gulf coast.
Widespread flooding in northern Queensland earlier this month isolated towns and farmland, and inundated more than 200 homes.
"We're certainly keeping a very close eye on how the rainfall pans out there, because we could see communities continue to be cut off," Mr How said
Looking out towards the Coral Sea, models are also showing a tropical low that is bringing a lot of rain from the Solomon Islands down to New Caledonia.
"We can't rule it out, but it looks like there will be generally unfavourable conditions for the system developing," Mr How said.
The system is expected to move towards the east and into Fiji's area of responsibility into next week.
The BOM said it was yet to put out any official advice for a developing tropical low even further to the north west in the Indian Ocean, which is also unlikely to form into a cyclone.
"We definitely can't rule it out … some of the models are suggesting that it will spin up into a cyclone, but other models aren't, and either way, it's not expected to have any impact on the continent," Mr How said.
Australia has experienced an active cyclone season so far, with seven systems entering its jurisdiction.
ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.
This week we discovered Australians have shocking dental hygiene, artificial intelligence is being used to crack down on jaywalking, and there's another celebrity running for office. Let's see what you can remember.
The AFL's relentless course to national sporting pre-eminence has come at a cost, writes Richard Hinds. But fans still have hope thanks to a couple of fairytale flag wins.
Following a question to Curious Melbourne, we delve into the city's history to find out whether they were still opium dens operating into the 1950s.
Terror Nullius is a radical retelling of the nation's history, offering a bold critique of masculinity, refugee policy and our treatment of Indigenous Australians, writes Jason Di Rosso.
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.