
							Rights Activists Take to The UN Human Rights Council to End Saudi Arabia's Religious Persecution					
While public opinion has grown rather dismissive of the Islamic World on account Islam has been labelled a vengeful and irrationally reactionary faith, it would serve the majority to finally admit that if indeed Islam has been wielded as a weapon of war, it has been so, on account a certain elite has sat, controlled and one may even add, hijacked Islam’s holiest of sanctuaries: Mecca, and thus risen itself as owner of a faith shared by over a billion people.
If Islam today inspires fear and hatred it is most certainly because it was molded to the image of its self-proclaimed guardians: the powerful Al Saud clan, who, since the fall of the Ottoman Empire bestowed upon themselves the coveted title of Custodians of the Two Holy Mosques. Such title, however empty of legitimacy, has essentially asserted Al Saud’s authority as a religious compass.
Those who resisted such infringement onto their religious rights - in Islam there can be no compulsion, have learnt, through much blood and violence, that Al Saud’s interpretation of Islam is that in fact of sectarianism and feudalism.
Under the rule of the Bedouins, just as it has been so since the dawn of time, the only allegiance to be had is that dictated by the king … God and religion are but subservient tools to his ambitions.
Under the rule of Saudi Arabia’s Salafi clergy, those standing in contradiction to Salafism rigid belief system, ought to be laid waste to in whichever way befitting the occasion: torture, flogging, beheading, crucifixion … sometimes both.
Clerics have had no qualms aligning their dogma to that of Terror - squarely landing Salafism and Wahhabism within the realm of the abominable and the terrible.
“We follow the same thought [as Daesh] but apply it in a refined way,” he said. “They draw their ideas from what is written in our own books, from our own principles.”
Evidently quite a lot since the kingdom has been rationalised as a flag bearer for the Islamic World - a worthy ally to western liberal democracies, and a friend to those who cherish secularism over the distasteful diktat of theocratism. I suppose the irony of such a paradox would be amusing if not dreadfully terrifying.
The kingdom as it were, is not just in the business of spreading dogmatism outside its borders so that more communities could be brought under its ruling house: Al Saud. The kingdom ambitions to redact the religious history of Islam by persecuting its many communities so that only one will endure: that endorsed by Al Saud.
Ninety-eight percent of Islamic heritage has been destroyed at the hands of Wahhabism. No longer will we tolerate this cultural genocide. No more will we permit the peaceful message of Islam to be hijacked, and our history annihilated at the hands of Wahhabi terrorists.
Not all people are ready to keep mum before Al Saud’s terrorism. And while I grant you such people sit a minority before the tentacular monster that is the Saudi lobby, their voices will hopefully carry loud enough, and convincingly enough for reason to finally win over insanity.
Saudi Arabia’s reign of sectarian-based terror over religious minorities during the Hajj must stop, and if not, at the very least acknowledge as a clear violation of international law
“Religious freedom is a basic human right that should suffer no limitation. While Mecca happens to be under the territorial jurisdiction of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, we believe that the holy nature of Mecca and the Hajj pilgrimage, should not be ceded to a clergy whose understanding of the Scriptures is rooted in violence, sectarianism, and fanaticism,” reads the press release.
The Universal Periodic Review (UPR) is a unique process which involves a review of the human rights records of all UN Member States. The UPR is a State-driven process, under the auspices of the Human Rights Council, which provides the opportunity for each State to declare what actions they have taken to improve the human rights situations in their countries and to fulfil their human rights obligations.
As one of the main features of the Council, the UPR is designed to ensure equal treatment for every country when their human rights situations are assessed. The ultimate aim of this mechanism is to improve the human rights situation in all countries and address human rights violations wherever they occur. Currently, no other universal mechanism of this kind exists.
“Al Baqee calls on the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to reform its current domestic law and policy in order to comply with its international legal obligations to preserve religious and cultural heritage sites and to respect the rights of religious minorities who wish to visit and perform religious service at those sites.”
For decades pilgrims have been physically assaulted, verbally harassed - men, women, and children have been brutalized, tortured and intimidated on account their school of thoughts differ from that of the Saudi regime.
But activists are not stopping there, quite the opposite in fact. A global campaign against religious persecution will kick off on the back of the Al Baqee’s efforts to raise awareness to sectarian-based intolerance, and the need to protect all religious communities, on the basis that freedom of religion is an inherent and inalienable natural right
Catherine Shakdam is a political analyst, writer and commentator for the Middle East with a special focus on radical movements and Yemen. The Director of Programs at the Shafaqna Institute for Middle Eastern Studies, Catherine is also the co-founder of Veritas Consulting. She authored Arabia’s Rising - Under The Banner Of The First Imam.


It’s a relationship of dirty toxicity, but these abound when universities establish ties with regimes and certain entities.  These migh...
 

On the 15th of September the dead bodies of a family were discovered by Burmese security forces In Mayu Mountain Rakhine state.The fami...


The meteoric rise of Prince Mohammed bin Salman marks an ascendancy unparalleled in Saudi Arabia's modern history but will this soft coup ...


The epic battle in the Trump White House between Jared Kushner, the Orthodox Jewish son-in-law, and Steve Bannon, the alt-NeoNazi White Ho...