Safe and Secure is intended to address the same issues as Prevent but without the accompanying negative baggage. It is also intended as a riposte to those who say Muslims are not doing enough to counter the threat posed by extremists.
Babu, who was a chief superintendent with the Metropolitan police before he retired in 2013, said: “We want to make this more about safeguarding than focus just on radicalisation.
“It’s about how you engage with a community in a way that is much more inclusive. “They [the architects of Prevent] didn’t get any buy-in from the community.”
Safe and Secure hopes to attract many of the people that Prevent aims to cover – including teachers, social workers, NHS staff, the police and probation workers – and address similar concerns but without stigmatising Muslims. 
Howes and Babu are running the workshops at no charge because they feel that the current strategy is foundering. Howes said they initially offered to run the programme for the Home Office but were rebuffed. As a result, they contacted the MCB, which has arranged for mosques to host the events and helped to publicise the workshops. 
The attendees at the London Muslim Centre, including mosque staff, youth and charity workers, a local reverend and even someone from Prevent, were encouraged to discuss real-life scenarios and what they would have done differently. 
There was lively debate, with concerns raised about the stigma attached to people referred under Prevent, even when the referral is considered inappropriate – which happens in 81% of cases, according to Anderson. In keeping with the emphasis placed on safeguarding by Babu and Howes, one attendee lamented that children who go or think about going to Syria are criminalised rather than helped. 
But the discussion around Prevent was not all one way. A local Muslim woman, while admitting she would not like members of her family being monitored, said: “We keep saying people shouldn’t be monitored so much … [but] I do want this scrutiny on people who pose this risk to my children and my family.” 
Babu said that, despite the criticism of Prevent, much of the feedback at the end of the workshop was that they were not hard enough on the government programme. 
“Ultimately, it makes the Muslim community feel they can’t be suspects and partners at the same time – I am pretty sure no one outside SCO19 [the Met’s firearms unit] and the Home Office thinks Prevent is working,” said Howes. “We thought Prevent is a mess, let’s try to do something different.” 
Her association with the Prevent strategy has made it especially important that she builds bridges with other Muslims, write Bushra Wasty and Sulekha Hassan of the Muslim Women’s Collective
Despite five terrorist attacks in six months, political action to counter radicalisation is hamstrung and woefully lacking