Russian President Vladimir Putin will try to bolster Russia's image through hosting the World Cup in much the same way as Adolf Hitler used the 1936 Olympics in Nazi Germany, Britain's Foreign Minister Boris Johnson said.
Mr Johnson told Parliament he agreed with a Labour MP who likened the event to Hitler's use of the 1936 Games as a propaganda vehicle for his regime.
"Your characterisation of what is going to happen in Moscow in the World Cup, in all the venues, I think the comparison with 1936 is certainly right," he said.
Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said Mr Johnson is "poisoned with venom of hate, unprofessionalism and boorishness", adding that "it's scary to remember that this person represents the political leadership of a nuclear power".
She said on Facebook Mr Johnson's statements were "unacceptable, unworthy of a top European diplomat", adding that it reflected London's efforts to cast Russia as an enemy, using the most absurd reasons, in order to boycott the World Cup.
Britain has blamed Russia for the attack and has expelled 23 of its diplomats, but Russia denies involvement.
Britain has also said it will not send ministers or members of the royal family in delegations to the World Cup, but Mr Johnson said it would be unfair on the players for the England team itself to withdraw.
He was concerned however about the safety of English fans and the ability of the British embassy and consular services to protect them.
British police have previously expressed confidence that Russia would deal with any trouble among their own supporters, as well as visiting ones.
Mr Johnson said applications to go to Russia for the World Cup were about a quarter of what they were at this stage ahead of the 2014 World Cup in Brazil.
"At the moment we are not inclined actively to dissuade people from going because we want to hear from the Russians what steps they are going to take to look after our fans."
ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.
New national security adviser John Bolton has a history of taking hardline positions on foreign policy — here's a snapshot of his views on some hot topics currently facing the White House.
This week we discovered Australians have shocking dental hygiene, artificial intelligence is being used to crack down on jaywalking, and there's another celebrity running for office. Let's see what you can remember.
The AFL's relentless course to national sporting pre-eminence has come at a cost, writes Richard Hinds. But fans still have hope thanks to a couple of fairytale flag wins.
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.