No 10 weighed in on the row as almost $20bn (£14bn) was wiped off the social network company’s market cap in the first few minutes of trading on the Nasdaq stock exchange, where Facebook opened down more than 3%. By midday, the company’s share price losses had multiplied to more than $40bn, making the day its worst in more than five years.
The European parliament president, Antonio Tajani, said on Monday that the institution would investigate fully. Tajani urged the social media company to take more responsibility, saying on Twitter that “allegations of misuse of Facebook user data is an unacceptable violation of our citizens’ privacy rights”. 
“The allegations are clearly very concerning. It’s essential people can have confidence that their personal data can be protected and used in an appropriate way,” May’s spokesman said. 
In a statement Facebook said: “We have hired a digital forensics firm, Stroz Friedberg, to conduct a comprehensive audit of Cambridge Analytica. Cambridge Analytica has agreed to comply and afford the firm complete access to their servers and systems. We remain committed to vigorously enforcing our policies to protect people’s information.”
Cambridge Analytica said: “In 2014 we received Facebook data and derivatives of Facebook data from another company, GSR, that we engaged in good faith to legally supply data for research. After it subsequently became known that GSR had broken its contract with Cambridge Analytica because it had not adhered to data protection regulation, Cambridge Analytica deleted all the Facebook data and derivatives, in cooperation with Facebook.
“I thought it was outrageous,” he said. “Facebook have some serious questions to answer here, and they will tell their side of the story. And to answer it by blocking an account, when we know in this house they do not act fast enough to block other accounts of obviously outrageous behaviour, I’ll tell you what, it shows that when they need to they can block things incredibly quickly and they will need to do a lot more that.”
However, Hancock said he had not seen any evidence that the activities had had an effect on the outcome of any election or referendum. 
Labour’s Stephen Kinnock said that if Cambridge Analytica were proved to have been “in flagrant breach of our electoral rules, that would place a pretty huge question mark over the referendum result”. 
“We need to hear from people who can speak about Facebook from a position of authority that requires them to know the truth,” Collins said. “Someone has to take responsibility for this. It’s time for Mark Zuckerberg to stop hiding behind his Facebook page.”
Downing Street said it would consider any formal requests to give new powers to the commissioner, Elizabeth Denham, but added her powers had only recently been reviewed. 
“I haven’t seen any formal requests. The information commissioner does have significant powers, which have been enhanced in recent times, but if any formal requests were made to us I’m sure we’d consider it,” the spokesman said.
Last month both Facebook representatives and Nix had told the parliamentary inquiry into fake news that the company did not have or use private Facebook data, or any data from Global Science Research (GSR). But in its statement on Friday night, explaining why it had suspended Cambridge Analytica and Wylie, Facebook said it had known in 2015 that profiles were passed to Nix’s company.
Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential election campaign paid Cambridge Analytica more than $6.2m, according to US federal election commission records but is has denied using any Facebook data in the campaign.
In a now-deleted series of tweets, Facebook’s chief security officer, Alex Stamos, argued that the friend list data that Cambridge Analytica had acquired was obtained through an API, a feature that allows programs to interface with Facebook, that was well documented “in our terms of service, platform documentation, the privacy settings and the screen used to login to apps”.
Man at centre of allegations about Facebook data breach is suspended pending full independent investigation
Execs from firm at heart of Facebook data breach say they used ‘unattributable and untrackable’ ads, according to undercover expose
Institution wants Facebook to confirm Aleksandr Kogan used no university data, resources or facilities to pass data to Cambridge Analytica