Maltese authorities took control of Pilatus Bank that is at the center of a scandal exposed by the murdered journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia
Malta’s banking regulator has frozen all transactions for customers, executives and shareholders at Pilatus Bank with immediate effect following the arrest and indictment in the US of its Washington-based Iranian owner, Ali Sadr, who was charged on Tuesday with money laundering and evading sanctions.
Pilatus opened an office in Mayfair, London, in April 2017 after being granted a “passport” to operate in the UK by the Maltese regulator. However, British banking watchdogs have never granted it permission to open accounts for UK resident customers.
The development poses questions about how Sadr, who is the son of one of Iran’s richest men, came to win – and keep – a banking licence in the Mediterranean country.
Pilatus did not respond to a request for comment. The bank was not named in the criminal indictment and has not been accused of wrongdoing by US authorities.
He also called on the EBA to examine whether Malta’s chief banking regulator, the MFSA, was aware of Sadr’s alleged criminal activity and whether the decision to grant the bank a banking licence was the result of favourable political interference by an official within the Muscat government.
He pointed to an allegation by the FIAU that Keith Schembri, Muscat’s controversial chief of staff, had received questionable payments, which originated from Russian nationals, into a Pilatus account that was held in Schembri’s name.
Schembri has said the payments were a legitimate repayment of debts from a friend and has denied wrongdoing.
Caruana Galizia had made a wide range of enemies, reporting on a political system rife with corruption, businesses seemingly used to launder money or pay bribes, and a criminal justice system that seemed incapable, or unwilling, to take on the controlling minds behind it all. 
Caruana Galizia’s three sons – Matthew, Paul and Andrew – welcomed the news that criminal charges would be considered by a court.
The court records alleged that a business owned by an Iranian conglomerate called Stratus Group, which was controlled by Sadr’s family, entered into a multimillion-dollar arrangement with the Venezuelan government in 2004 in which they agreed to an infrastructure project to build thousands of homes in Venezuela.
According to prosecutors, Sadr took steps to hide the role of Iranian parties in the transaction as he funneled proceeds from the contract through the US banking system. 
In one case, Sadr and an unnamed co-conspirator used passports they acquired in St Kitts and Nevis and an address in the UAE to incorporate two entities outside Iran to receive the dollar payments.
 It is alleged that one entity, called Clarity Trade and Finance, was incorporated in Switzerland, while another, Stratus International Contracting, was incorporated in Turkey.
The two entities were used to funnel the dollar payments to an offshore entity in the British Virgin Islands. Clarity also wired $2m in proceeds from the Venezuelan project back into the US, where it was used to purchase real estate in California.
The justice department said that the case was being handled by the terrorism and international narcotics unit.