MYANMAR leader Aung San Suu Kyi was welcomed to Australia today with a military honour guard and 19-gun salute as part of a state visit that has provoked protests over her response to her army’s violent campaign against Rohingya Muslims.
Ms Suu Kyi arrived in Sydney at the weekend for a summit of south-east Asian leaders and her state visit officially began today when she was welcomed to Parliament House in Canberra. It coincides with her facing international criticism over what has become Asia’s worst refugee crisis in decades.
More than 700,000 Rohingya have fled from Buddhist-majority Myanmar to neighbouring Bangladesh since August when the military kicked off a campaign of ethnic cleansing justified by citing insurgent attacks on police.
Their violent campaign has included burning Rohingya villages, systematic rape, shootings and other human rights abuses.
Mr Turnbull said yesterday that Ms Suu Kyi had used the weekend summit to seek humanitarian help from her fellow members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) and Australia to deal with the crisis.
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak told the summit that the refugee crisis was no longer solely a domestic issue for Myanmar, as fleeing Rohingya could be prime targets for terrorist radicalisation.
But its denials have appeared increasingly tenuous as horrific accounts from refugees have accumulated and satellite imagery and other evidence of destroyed Rohingya villages have been assembled.
Human rights groups have criticised Australia for maintaining its limited military engagement with Myanmar. Australia provides English-language lessons and training courses to Myanmar officers to “promote professionalism and adherence to international laws,” according to the military.
You can’t buy a revolution, but you can help the only daily paper in
			Britain that’s fighting for one by joining the 501 club.
By becoming a 501 Club member you are helping the Morning Star cover its
			printing, distribution and staff costs — help keep our paper thriving by
			joining!
You can’t buy a revolution, but you can help the only daily paper in
			Britain that’s fighting for one by become a member of the People’s
			Printing Press Society.
The Morning Star is a readers’ co-operative, which means you can become
			an owner of the paper too by buying shares in the society.
Shares are £1 each — though unlike capitalist firms, each shareholder
			has an equal say. Money from shares contributes directly to keep our
			paper thriving.
You can’t buy a revolution, but you can help the only daily paper in
			Britain that’s fighting for one by donating to the Fighting Fund.
The Morning Star is unique, as a lone socialist voice in a sea of
			corporate media. We offer a platform for those who would otherwise never
			be listened to, coverage of stories that would otherwise be buried.
The rich don’t like us, and they don’t advertise with us, so we rely on
			you, our readers and friends. With a regular donation to our monthly
			Fighting Fund, we can continue to thumb our noses at the fat cats and
			tell truth to power.
MOSCOW urged the United States today to abandon plans for a military strike against Syrian government forces.
We're a reader-owned co-operative, which means you can become part of the paper too by buying shares in the People’s Press Printing Society.
 We're a reader-owned co-operative, which means you can become part of the paper too by buying shares in the People’s Press Printing Society.