UNICEF says Finland has violated the rights of asylum seeker children by detaining them and deporting them to countries it says are unsafe.
The report “Protected on Paper?” says that Finland gives migration law precedence over the Convention on the Rights of the Child and fails to determine children's best interests during the asylum process. 
"Children’s best interests should be taken into account every time a decision affects them, even if they have arrived in Finland with their parents," says Mirella Huttunen from UNICEF’s Finland National Committee. 
Such due process does not always take place, and consequently underage asylum seekers are deported to countries with a questionable security situation, the report says. 
Moreover, the Finnish Immigration Service (Migri) issues unaccompanied asylum seeker children temporary permits that only allow them to stay in the country until they can be sent home at the age of 18. 
UNICEF is particularly concerned about Finland’s policy of detaining asylum seeker children in prison-like institutions. 
According to many studies, detention is extremely harmful for a child’s development, Huttunen says. “If this was a Finnish child, no authority in Finland would allow it,” she says. 
The report recommends that Finland swiftly change its laws and practices concerning the detention of asylum seeker children. Clear criteria as to how a child’s best interest is determined during the asylum process are urgently needed, UNICEF says. 
Finally, the report proposes that the responsibility for underage asylum seekers who arrive in the country alone should be transferred from Migri to child protection authorities. 
The report analysed Finland and the other Nordic countries in terms of how they treat underage asylum seekers. UNICEF found problems in all five countries. 

Finland scolded by Amnesty International in annual report - asylum, domestic violence policies questioned


Finnish foreign minister Timo Soini says that North Korean and US diplomats are not talking denuclearisation at their meetings in Helsinki.


An investigation is underway into the disappearance of a Finnish national believed to be wrapped up in the case of missing UAE princess and a former French spy.


A survey suggests that 73 percent of young people are opposed to a pending reform that would make matriculation exam results the primary deciding factor for tertiary education admissions.


Eurostat finds that Finland has the lowest incidence of in-work poverty in the European Union. The 2016 proportion of employed persons at risk of poverty in the EU was just short of 10 percent.


State labour mediator Minna Helle is working simultaneously to resolve contract disputes that could affect everything from passenger ferries to home heating.


All Points North Podcast #6: Ali Jahangiri, the World Happiness Report, paranormal forces, and a lot of coffee


Tuesday's papers: Fire in Tampere, Turku stabbing court case begins, plans to curb cars in Helsinki, and an escaped con


Monday's papers: Putin's victory, Nokia's future, Finnish profs mull British exodus, and busy roads


All Points North Podcast #6: Ali Jahangiri, the World Happiness Report, paranormal forces, and a lot of coffee
