This site uses cookies to enhance your reading experience. By using this site, you consent to our use of cookies.
Axios PM: Trump's congrats for Putin — Cambridge Analytica CEO suspended — The Facebook meeting — Black Panther sets Twitter record
https://www.axios.com/merkel-warned-netanyahu-collapse-iran-deal-could-mean-war-9a446fe9-6c5f-425a-8625-58ddd87574a0.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel warned Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that a decision by President Trump to withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal might lead to the collapse of the agreement and, as a result, could lead to a regional war. German officials told me Merkel made this position clear when she met Netanyahu at the world economic forum in Davos Switzerland on January 24th.
A German official said Netanyahu presented all his arguments against the Iran deal to Merkel during the meeting. 
Netanyahu and Merkel spoke tonight on the phone. The purpose of the call was for Netanyahu to congratulate Merkel on forming a new government, but the two also discussed the Iran deal. 
Netanyahu's office did not dispute the account of the meeting with Merkel in Davos, and said in a statement: 
"Prime Minister Netanyahu emphasizes Israel's vital security interests at every meeting and he will continue to do so. The Prime Minister is convinced that the Iran deal should be fundamentally fixed or fundamentally nixed because this deal would lead for sure to Iran having an arsenal of nuclear bombs."
https://www.axios.com/report-kaspersky-exposed-a-counterterrorism-spy-operation-60e52e90-1437-46f2-af37-f1df92c72290.html
The officials told CyberScoop the exposure may put soldiers’ lives at risk, could ruin the surveillance program and risk intel-gathering.
https://www.axios.com/russia-venezuela-cryptocurrency-dodge-donald-trump-sanctions--3df45eae-a266-4ae4-895c-a44ded4e928c.html
TIME also reports that Maduro’s Russian advisers, Denis Druzhkov and Fyodor Bogorodsky, who both have major ties to Russian banks and billionaires, were at the launch of the digital currency last month.
The Russian government denied TIME's report, with the Finance Ministry saying none of Russia's financial authorities were involved in the petro's creation. Venezuelan officials did not respond to a request for comment. 