
        Taking off from New Delhi, Air India completes maiden flight ■ Israel’s El Al airlines also hopes to be allowed to fly through Saudi airspace, and has been vying for such permission despite the lack of diplomatic relations with Riyadh
    
A screenshot of the historic first flight to Israel over Saudi Arabian airspace taking off from India

                                                                                                        Israel's leading carrier El Al seeks international help to access Saudi airspace
                                                            

                                                                                                        Saudi Arabia gives Air India overflight rights for its Israel routes, claims Netanyahu
                                                            

                                                                                                        Who's hiding Israeli air force participation in major exercise with UAE and U.S.?
                                                            
The Israeli Foreign Ministry said in a statement that Israel considers the new route important, noting that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu raised the matter of the route with his counterpart, Narendra Modi, when the two met in July in Israel and the following January in India. The ministry said the route would also lower fares and boost investment and tourism from India to Israel.
                                                    
skip
                            - A tweet from @sidhant showing Air India launching a non-stop flight from Delhi to Tel Aviv.
El Al flies four weekly flights to Mumbai, but these take seven hours rather than five as they fly south toward Ethiopia and then east to India, avoiding Saudi airspace.
                                                    

                                                                                                                                                                                

                                    Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in
                                    accordance with site policy.
                                

									If you would like to be notified when your comment is published,
									please fill in your email address in the form below.
								

				The Smoking Gun in Vienna, The Ominous Call From Bush: How Israel Destroyed Syria's Nuclear Reactor 
			
'Israelis Didn't Want to See Palestinians as Human Beings': Why This Reporter Felt Rejected by Israel 
How Julie Fisher Went From U.S. Ambassador’s Wife to Ambassador for Israel’s Embattled Asylum Seekers 

				Iran, Syria and Saudi Arabia: Top Three Stunning Admissions From the Top U.S. General in the Middle East 
			

										A Jew, an Early Christian and a Roman Meet in Archaeological Park to Be Built on Evacuated Prison 
			

										'Man, She's Pretty': Behind Syrian Rebels' Gruesome Murder of a Female Kurdish Fighter 
			
Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.