Family appeals for Finnish woman Tiina Jauhiainen confirmed missing from same yacht as Sheikha Latifa & Hervé Jaubert. Family’s urgent appeal for help and statement.
Contact was lost with all three parties on the 4th of March 2018 after an SOS call was made to Detained in Dubai’s founder, Radha Stirling, by Sheikha Latifa who reported gunshots. All three have been officially reported as missing in France, the UK, the USA, India, Finland and the UAE.  
Tiina was a close friend of Sheikha Latifa Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum of Dubai, known for her skydiving, a sport that Tiina was also passionate about and they had bonded over the years, becoming close confidants.
Sheikha Latifa had confided in Tiina that she had been imprisoned and abused as a result of a prior escape attempt and, since her release, was working on a plan to flee the country.  Tiina had in turn, told her family of the situation and Latifa’s ideas to leave the country.  The two friends found public figure and French ex secret service agent Hervé Jaubert, who is famous for his book “Escape from Dubai”.
Tiina’s family contacted by Tiina from the yacht and they maintained communication with her.  The last time Tiina was seen online was a few minutes before the distress call was made from Latifa to Radha.  Latifa told Radha in her SOS call that she was hiding with her friend, that men were outside, that she didn’t know what was happening and that she had “heard gunshots”.  At this time, all communication with Latifa, Hervé and Tiina ceased and it has now been over two weeks without word.
Radha Stirling said “We have a US flagged yacht that has disappeared, a US/French national, a Finnish national and the daughter of the ruler of Dubai missing after reporting gunfire.  We now have the daughter of the ruler of a country making serious allegations of criminal actions against her father.  The UAE has such strong commercial, trade, media and diplomatic ties, that this incident is likely to have a snowballing effect on the political and economic stability.
“the magnitude of what occurred in the Indian ocean two weeks ago on a US registered yacht is getting graver by the day. Radha and I and the team at Detained in Dubai have been working day and night to put together the pieces of what has happened. We have spent this last week speaking with the families and friends of those missing and involved. Offering, advice and comfort in what is a horrific time. It is totally unacceptable that the UAE continue their silence. It is two weeks, six people and a US registered boat that are missing in the most concerning circumstances.  This set against a back drop of Dubai’s own Media office pumping story after story of a different Sheikha Latifa, perhaps in a bid to confuse the world, whilst shadowy diplomatic PR companies brief press behind the scenes that this is not Sheikha Latifa, yet refuse to put that in writing.  We at Detained in Dubai know this is Sheikha Latifa. I have personally known this since I first came across Her Highness at the GFH office in Dubai almost ten years ago. More importantly all the families of the missing and those involved know this is Sheikha Latifa, as do the hundreds of people that met her in Sky Dive Dubai, where she was known as the Sky diving princess. The thousands of her Instagram follows know this. The question why has the UAE stayed silent?”
Detained in Dubai is in touch with the Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Finnish Police.  The Ministry of Foreign Affairs have confirmed that they are seeking any information that may assist their investigation and that the Finnish Embassy in Abu Dhabi is following the case.
Detained in Dubai has filed an urgent request for intervention with the Indian Coast Guard and has provided last known coordinates of the yacht called “Nostromo”, registered in Delaware, US.
Escape from Dubai was founded in response to this incident to act as a central information point and is seeking to raise funds to assist with legal and investigative costs.
Social media users are using hashtags #FindLatifa #FindHervé #WhereisLatifa? #WhereisHervé? #EscapefromDubai#WhereisNostromo? to source information and raise awareness.  #WhereisTiina? is the new question that needs answering.
My name is Oku Jauhiainen. I am the brother of Tiina Johanna Jauhiainen. Tiina is a Finnish citizen, born on the 18th of August 1976 in Iisalmi, Finland. She is a beloved daughter, an aunt cherished by her nieces and nephews, and a sister much loved by her three siblings. I speak for, and on behalf of, our entire family in this statement.
Tiina left our small town for the world, first to London in 1997, later settling in Dubai. She had always wanted to see the world, and she cares very little for material wealth or possessions. She believes that wealth was to be found in experiencing the world, meeting people and making friends. She has traveled widely and far, and we greatly admire her bravery and her passion for life. Her visits back home, when she shares her adventures with us, have been the highlights of our years.
Since 2001, Tiina has lived in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, working mainly in real estate and fitness industries. In mid-2000s Tiina became an avid enthusiast of capoeira, a Brazilian martial art. In 2010 the sport also connected Tiina with Sheikha Latifa Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum of Dubai when Tiina became her instructor and personal trainer. They became close friends, with a particular passion for skydiving.  Sheikha Latifa referred to Tiina as “my angel” and “the only person I can talk to about anything”.
Our last contact with Tiina was on Saturday 3rd of March.  Next week my sister was worried about her as it was unusual for her to be silent for so long. On Sunday morning 11th of March a trusted and close friend of the family contacted me after becoming aware of the news regarding the distress call of Sheikha Latifa Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum of Dubai from a yacht off the coast of India, near Goa. We knew Tiina and Sheikha Latifa were close friends so we became very worried. Later in the day
we noticed Tiina’s phone was last online approximately ten minutes before the time given for the distress call in Detained in Dubai’s first press release which mentioned the name ‘Tina’. We became very alarmed. We contacted the police and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Finland, and filed a missing persons report. We began gathering evidence of what had happened.  We contacted many people who might know Tiina’s location, and we were contacted by people who were also worried about her.
Although we had hoped otherwise, after a week of investigation and carefully weighing all the evidence we had gathered, including that provided to us by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Finland, there was no doubt in our minds. Tiina was on that yacht with Sheikha Latifa and Hervé Jaubert.
behalf of our daughter and our family in this matter. One of the first things we have asked Detained in Dubai to do is to include Tiina’s name in the complaint to the United Nations by Toby Cadman, Barrister of Guernica International Justice Chambers in London.
We would like to thank Detained in Dubai and many others, friends and strangers, for their help and support.
Herve advised Detained in Dubai that he was helping the woman “escape Dubai” on board a US registered vessel.  They were approaching India on Sunday the 4th of March 2018 and were within 50 miles as of 11:00 GMT,  with the plan to disembark and fly to the US from Mumbai.  A distress call was made seven hours later from Sheikha Latifa to Radha Stirling, then contact ceased immediately and permanently.
Radha Stirling, Detained in Dubai’s CEO, who was instructed to assist by the missing persons, said “We call on relevant international authorities to investigate the disappearance of US National Hervé Jaubert, Emirati National Sheikha Latifa and her British friend.  No questions as to the whereabouts of the missing persons have been answered and no responses provided by the United Arab Emirates government.  We are gravely concerned for the safety of all three parties and thank all of those who have come forth with information.”
Detained in Dubai was contacted by a woman who identified herself as a Sheikha Latifa Mohammed Al Maktoum the daughter of Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and a man who identified himself as Jean Pierre Hervé Jaubert, who was known to Detained in Dubai’s CEO, Radha Stirling.  Immediately upon initial contact, Detained in Dubai commenced steps to verify the identity of the parties and the claims made.  British Solicitor David Haigh was able to contact various third parties who confirmed the identity of Sheikha Latifa.  During this process there was regular and lengthy contact between the missing persons and Detained in Dubai. 
Following the distress call, communication with all of the missing persons ceased.  Having had communication with the missing person previously, and following the distress call, Detained in Dubai alerted the relevant authorities.  Detained in Dubai further sought the assistance of leading human rights Barristers and Queen's Counsel together with the assistance of several leading human rights charities with which Detained in Dubai works. 
Detained in Dubai filed a police report with the Metropolitan police, the UAE Embassy in the UK, the United States State Department and the Coast Guard of India.  The only authority who has responded is the United Kingdom who have forwarded the report to the National Crime Agency and Interpol for investigation.
Since the incident, parties who had known the missing persons have confirmed their identity and last known location.  Close friends have confirmed that the woman in the video is indeed Sheikha Latifa who explained that there are three Sheikha Latifa’s and that she was the middle one known for skydiving, with the instagram account latifa_1.
Two US attorneys confirmed that they were aware of the situation and had been contacted by American and French national and Florida resident Hervé Jaubert, a client of theirs, who was also known to them.  They have since prepared a missing persons report.
The @MailOnline broke the news on Friday and showed part of a video where the woman explains some of the reasons for her escape attempt.  The video was provided to a US attorney by Latifa  for distribution in the event of her death or disappearance.  The video extends for around 40 minutes and makes claims that she was "imprisoned, tortured, beaten and censored” as well as going onto name those involved and setting out various potential crimes.  That video was provided to the authorities and legal advisors.  The full video has since been published on YouTube by a variety of sources. 
Radha Stirling, who was the last party to speak with the missing persons said "We are very concerned for the safety of the missing persons. We have already been inundated with calls and emails and evidence that assist us and the authorities.  We appeal to anyone for any information that could be helpful to please get in touch with us.  We would also like to appeal to anyone that can assist with the search. Lawyers, Human rights organisations, friends, family or even the General public.  
The missing persons requested our assistance and instructed us to assist them in in the event of their arrest or disappearance, which we are now doing.  We are liaising with authorities, leading human rights lawyers and human rights organisations.
We are seeking response from US, British, Indian and UAE authorities on this incident.  A US national and his American registered boat have gone missing, as well as Sheikha Latifa, with Indian intelligence suggesting that they are now in the custody of UAE authorities against their will.
Detained in Dubai Limited, is registered in England and Wales under company number 11248768 with its registered office at Kemp House, 180 City Road, London EC1 2NX UK
Detained in Dubai calls Indian government to investigate the disappearance of American registered yacht carrying Dubai princess and American and Finnish citizens as possible act of piracy

                Detained in Dubai calls upon the Indian government to investigate the disappearance of American registered yacht carrying Dubai princess and American and Finnish citizens as possible act of piracy, now missing for two weeks without investigation!
            

                Middle Eastern travel, investment and expat hotspot Dubai is under scrutiny for ongoing abuse of British citizens, wrongful imprisonments and human rights violations.  Should Brits be putting themselves in jeopardy?
            
تعلن المؤسسة البريطانية غير الحكومية "Detained in Dubai"، نيابة عن عملائها الشيخة لطيفة وهيرفيه جوبير، الشكوى المقدمة "للأمم المتحدة" للمطالبة بتدخلهم العاجل والفوري!

                

ويتابع ديفيد هيغ David Haigh، وهو محام بريطاني وأحد شركاء "Stirling's Partners"  حالياً شكواه الخاصة ضد الإمارات المتحدة أمام الأمم


            
Guernica International Justice Chambers press statement on Sheikha Latifa & Hervé Jaubert case before the United Nations

                Guernica 37 International Justice Chambers in London has been instructed to file an immediate complaint with the UN Special Procedures Branch
            
 UK NGO ‘Detained in Dubai’, on behalf of clients Sheikha Latifa and Herve Jaubert, announces UNITED NATIONS COMPLAINT requesting urgent and immediate intervention.

                Detained in Dubai on behalf of its clients Sheikha Latifa and Hervé Jaubert, has instructed Guernica 37 International Justice Chambers in London to file an immediate and urgent complaint with the UN Special Procedures Branch
            
US citizen missing - INDIAN INTELLIGENCE CLAIMS: “Sheikha Latifa is alive and has been taken back to Dubai”

                American Jean-Pierre Hervé Jaubert missing from US registered vessel off coast of India as attempt to help Dubai Sheikha escape ends with “distress call” & reported gunshots.  Indian intelligence claims “Latifa is alive and has been taken back to Dubai” 3 Missing persons including  Florida resident, author and ex French intelligence agent, Hervé Jaubert - last heard from off the coast of India.


            
كشف الغموض عن قصة "أميرة دبي الهاربة" مع ومواطنة أمريكية أخرى – تسريب الفيديو الكامل لرسالة الاستغاثة اليائسة  

                مؤسسة Detained in Dubai البريطانية غير الهادفة للربح، تقوم بعمل محضر بأشخاص مفقودين لكل من ابنة حاكم دبي ومواطن أمريكي، بعد أن تلقت نداء استغاثة!
            
Unfolding mystery of “Runaway Dubai Princess" with American national - Desperate FULL LENGTH video released

                Missing persons report filed for daughter of Dubai’s ruler and American National after distress call was received by British NGO Detained in Dubai.
            
Family says "Frenchman Christian Elombo detained in Oman in connection with Sheikha Latifa’s escape"

                40 year old fitness centre operator Christian Elombo from Paris, is current detained in Oman’s national security prison following his alleged involvement in the rescue of Sheikha Latifa, daughter of the ruler of Dubai.
            

                ​Sheikha Latifa Al Maktoum, daughter of Dubai ruler Sheikh Mohamed bin Rashid Al Maktoum (one of three daughters with the same name), disappeared from the UAE, most likely in late February.
            