Study by Warwick University also found patients referred to Prevent programme for watching Arabic TV or going to Mecca
The Warwick University study surveyed 329 NHS staff on Prevent anti-radicalisation measures in the health service. With the UK the only country in the world to incorporate the duty to report signs of radicalisation into its healthcare system, NHS trusts are obliged to train staff to report patients or staff they suspect of being radicalised to safeguarding teams.
But according to study authors Charlotte Heath-Kelly and Erzsébet Strausz, less than half of the staff surveyed believe that Prevent belongs in the NHS or that it is intended as a safeguarding measure.
Heath-Kelly and Strausz sent freedom of information requests to all 54 NHS mental health trusts in England. Of the 49 that replied, four said that they assessed every patient for signs of radicalisation, while the others reported that they conducted radicalisation risk assessments on patients they had specific concerns about.
70% of NHS staff surveyed said they would be likely or very likely to raise a Prevent query on the basis of someone owning anarchist or Islamic philosophy books.
Each NHS trust receives a daily counter-terrorism briefing from the Home Office. “It is unclear why the NHS would require daily briefings on international terrorism for its work,” the report states.
The Home Office also provides NHS staff with advice on how to counter negative media stories about the Prevent programme.
The report takes issue with the definition of Prevent in the NHS as a safeguarding measure, saying that safeguarding has shifted from a welfare-oriented to a security-oriented endeavour.
But there are concerns that the definition is hazily applied and operating in a legal grey area. Heath-Kelly expressed particular alarm about the instruction from police to refer any cases NHS staff have concerns about, even if those concerns turn out to be unfounded. “This is a surveillance rationale, not a safeguarding rationale,” she said.
The role of NHS mental health trusts in making Prevent referrals is key. According to Sir Bruce Keogh, NHS England’s former national medical director, two-thirds of NHS Prevent referrals come from mental health trusts. Since last November, the government has produced separate Prevent guidance for NHS mental health trusts.
The report urges the four NHS trusts who investigate all patients for signs of radicalisation to stop doing so.
Two-thirds of the NHS staff surveyed said they were not confident that they could distinguish someone who had been radicalised from someone who had an interest in Middle Eastern politics. Although the NHS philosophy is “no decision about me without me”, consent is rarely obtained before a Prevent referral is made, the report finds.
Heath-Kelly said: “Historically this kind of thing has existed in non-democratic societies and we know the history of where that leads. It becomes deeply concerning when you look at the real world of how it works for people being asked to do something they are not trained to do and identify people who might in the future become dangerous. There is deeply problematic mission creep here.”
The security minister Ben Wallace said Prevent aimed to safeguard and support individuals vulnerable to all forms of radicalisation.