
        Shin Bet says employee, who will be indicted today, smuggled some 70 pistols and two guns in consulate vehicle ■ Israeli officials: 'A grave matter, but won't affect relations with France'
    
French consulate employee Roman Frank, and the government vehicle in which he smuggled weapons from Gaza to the West Bank.
Roman Frank was a driver at the consulate and carried an official passport. He was detained for questioning by Israeli security authorities on February 19. An East Jerusalem resident who worked as a security guard at the consulate was also arrested as well as Gazans who were illegally in the West Bank.
                                                    
The two will appear in court on Monday, most likely in a Be'er Sheva court, for smuggling weapons from Gaza to the West Bank.
                                                    
The Shin Bet also said that the smuggling effort involved Palestinians from Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem and that the Shin Bet investigation has found that the weapons were transferred into Israel by Frank via the Erez border crossing, between Gaza and Israel, using official consular vehicles that weren't as meticulously checked at the border.
                                                    
The investigation of the French consular employees was carried out in coordination with the Foreign Ministry, which kept the French authorities apprised of developments, the Shin Bet statement said.
                                                    
The French Embassy issued a statement saying: "The authorities in France are taking the incident in which one if the workers at the consulate general of France in Jerusalem is a suspect with very great seriousness. The authorities in France are cooperating with Israeli authorities."
                                                    
The case was reported extensively on Sunday in the French press but a gag order was imposed on coverage of it in Israel, even though the relevant agencies in Israel, including the Shin Bet and the Foreign Ministry, had already worked on a press release on matter.
                                                    
This is not the first time that a security-related case has been banned from publication while it was reported on extensively abroad.
                                                    
Maj. Gen. Yoav Mordechai, the coordinator of government activities in the territories, said that "This is a serious incident involving cynical and unceasing use by terror infrastructure of international humanitarian assistance channels," adding that the incident "only highlights the need for meticulous and strict policy on the granting of permits.
                                                    
"International officials need to put their own houses in order to assure that assistance is provided to the residents of Gaza rather than terrorism [from Gaza]. Terrorist organizations in the strip don't abhor any channel, even if it is meant to provide medical or international assistance to exploit their needs. Again and again we see that the good of the population of the Gaza Strip does not interest the terrorist organizations at all," he concluded.
                                                    
The affair takes place days before French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian is slated to arrive in Israel, amid the backdrop of a potential visit from French President Emmanuel Macron later this fall. This affair may overshadow the visit.
                                                    

                                                                                                                                                                                

                                    Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in
                                    accordance with site policy.
                                

									If you would like to be notified when your comment is published,
									please fill in your email address in the form below.
								
Arab Citizens Tried to Buy Land in This Israeli Town. The Mayor Halted the Sale to Uphold Its 'Jewish-Zionist Nature' 

				Iran, Syria and Saudi Arabia: Top Three Stunning Admissions From the Top U.S. General in the Middle East 
			

										A Jew, an Early Christian and a Roman Meet in Archaeological Park to Be Built on Evacuated Prison 
			

										'Man, She's Pretty': Behind Syrian Rebels' Gruesome Murder of a Female Kurdish Fighter 
			
Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.