Israeli Hackers Reportedly Offered Trump-linked Firm Cambridge Analytica Private Info on Two Heads of State 

        Directors at the company instructed staff to use data provided by hackers, and in two cases in 2015 employees refused using such materials, the Guardian reports
    
Chief Executive of Cambridge Analytica Alexander Nix, leaves the offices in central London, Tuesday March 20, 2018. 

                                                                                                        Investigations launched into Trump consultants harvesting of private data from a quarter of all potential U.S. voters
                                                            

                                                                                                        Cambridge Analytica, Trump and 50 million Facebook accounts: What you need to know
                                                            

                                                                                                        Academic behind Facebook data breach says he's being scapegoated: Data was more likely to hurt Trump
                                                            
According to the report, the hackers obtained the materials by hacking the private email accounts of the two politicians.
                                                    
Israeli Spies, Ukrainian Honey Traps: The Dirty Tricks Used by Cambridge Analytica, the Firm Behind Facebook Data Breach
Executives at Cambridge Analytica – including CEO Alexander Nix – instructed the staff to use the materials provided by the hackers in election campaigns in Nigeria and St. Kitts and Nevis, citing multiple sources.
                                                    
According to the report, in Cambridge Analytica employees met Israeli cybersecurity contractors at their London office. The Israelis reportedly gave them a USB stick containing what they said were hacked emails. The employees were told to search the data for incriminating material that could be used to damage the opponent of then-Nigeria President Jonathan Goodluck, who hired the firm. Goodluck lost the election to Opposition Leader Muhammadu Buhari.
                                                    
People “freaked out,” one employee is quoted as saying. “They wanted to have nothing to do with it.”
                                                    
The same Israeli crew met with Cambridge Analytica staffers in early 2015, offering private information on the St Kitts and Nevis politician Timothy Harris, now the prime minister, the report said.
                                                    
The sources said they suspected that the data was stolen and refused to handle it. “Nobody wanted to have anything to do with it,” one employee is quoted as saying.
                                                    
Cambridge Analytica is under fire for harvesting the private information of millions of Facebook users in order to sway voters. The firm reportedly used various tricks to entrap the rivals of their clients.
                                                    
On Tuesday, Britain's Channel 4 News published a video which secretly taped executives from the company admitting that they used British and Israeli spies, honey traps and fake news campaigns to help their clients.
                                                    
“It sounds a dreadful thing to say, but these are things that don’t necessarily need to be true as long as they’re believed,” CEO Nix is recorded as saying in one exchange, describing the types of tricks employed by the firm.
                                                    
"We use some British companies, we use some Israeli companies," Nix was quoted as saying by British media. "From Israel. Very effective in intelligence gathering."
                                                    
Cambridge Analytica has ties to both former Trump chief counselor Steve Bannon and Trump 2020 campaign manager Brad Parscale.
                                                    
Facebook suspended the company on Friday after finding that it had violated its data privacy policies, preventing it from buying ads or administering client pages.
                                                    
Cambridge Analytica said it strongly denies the media claims, and that it deleted all Facebook data it obtained from a third-party app in 2014 after learning the information did not adhere to data protection rules.
                                                    

                                    Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in
                                    accordance with site policy.
                                

									If you would like to be notified when your comment is published,
									please fill in your email address in the form below.
								

				The Smoking Gun in Vienna, The Ominous Call From Bush: How Israel Destroyed Syria's Nuclear Reactor 
			
'Israelis Didn't Want to See Palestinians as Human Beings': Why This Reporter Felt Rejected by Israel 
How Julie Fisher Went From U.S. Ambassador’s Wife to Ambassador for Israel’s Embattled Asylum Seekers 

				Iran, Syria and Saudi Arabia: Top Three Stunning Admissions From the Top U.S. General in the Middle East 
			

										A Jew, an Early Christian and a Roman Meet in Archaeological Park to Be Built on Evacuated Prison 
			

										'Man, She's Pretty': Behind Syrian Rebels' Gruesome Murder of a Female Kurdish Fighter 
			
Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.