The city of Elorza is selling its own bills featuring the image of an independence leader from the area. Venezuela's national currency has lost the vast majority of its value in just the last year.

                    
                    Federico Parra /AFP/Getty Images
                    
                
A banner depicting Venezuela's currency, the bolivar, at the central bank of Venezuela in Caracas in January. The bolivar has lost the vast majority of its value in just the last year.
As Venezuela reels from hyperinflation that has caused a severe shortage of cash, one city is trying to mitigate the problem by printing its own currency.
Prices have skyrocketed, making it hard for people to afford basic necessities such as food or medicine. And even if people do have the money, it's hard to actually find enough cash to buy the goods.
Elorza has a festival that starts Monday, according to the broadcaster, and local authorities and businessmen were worried that the cash crunch would cause the city to lose business.
"Now those who want to buy just a sweet or even a whole cow from the barbecue, will be able to do so," cattle breeder Canuto Garcia told the BBC.
The mayor's office is selling the local currency at an 8 percent commission, according to Reuters, which can be purchased with bolivars using a card or bank transfer. "People will be able to return the tickets to the mayor's office and claim a bolivar-denominated refund," the wire service adds.
At the time, opposition politician Guerra expressed concern that multiple currencies in the country could further deepen the crisis by creating "monetary chaos," the AP added.
Last month, President Nicolás Maduro also proposed a state-sponsored cryptocurrency to ease the cash crunch.
On Monday, the White House imposed new sanctions on Venezuelan cryptocurrency. The executive order prohibits transactions by U.S. citizens using "any digital currency, digital coin, or digital token," issued by Venezuela's government since January.
As Reuters reports, Maduro's government "blames the country's crisis on an 'economic war' being waged by Washington and the opposition, aimed at toppling his government."
"By selling U.S. dollars at different rates, the government effectively created a black market and increased opportunities for corruption. A business that is authorized to buy dollars at preferential rates to purchase priority goods like food or medicine could instead sell those dollars for a significant profit to third parties."