The Trump administration plans to impose tariffs worth as much as $60 billion on Chinese products as early as this week to punish Beijing for what the U.S. perceives as intellectual property theft from American businesses, according to two people familiar with the matter.
The exact size and makeup of the sanctions could still change, said two people who spoke on condition of anonymity because the discussions aren’t public. While Trump has repeatedly singled out China as a key trade violator, his toughest actions such as withdrawing from an Asia-Pacific trade pact -- which excluded China -- and slapping tariffs on steel have undermined relations with allies more than with the world’s second-biggest economy.
The Washington Post reported earlier Monday that the administration planned to impose $60 billion worth of tariffs by Friday, after the president rejected a proposal by his officials to levy $30 billion in duties.
Sweeping U.S. tariffs will test the resolve of Chinese President     Xi Jinping, whose government has so far reacted in a measured fashion to Trump’s repeated complaints about the U.S.’s record $375 billion deficit with China. The country’s foreign minister said earlier this month, in response to Trump’s decision to impose steel and aluminum tariffs, that China would have a "justified and necessary response” to any efforts to incite a trade war.
“With China’s economy so deeply integrated to the international economy, shutting the door would only block China’s own way,” Li said during a news conference at the close of the annual National People’s Congress in Beijing.
Broad-based tariffs on Chinese goods would “trigger a chain reaction of negative consequences for the U.S. economy,” a coalition of more than 40 business groups led by the Information Technology Industry Council said Sunday in a letter to the president. The coalition includes groups representing retailers and makers of everything from toys to wine, while the council represents companies including Amazon, Alphabet Inc.’s Google, Facebook Inc. and Microsoft Corp.
The USTR has argued that China uses a range of practices to force companies to transfer IP, and Chinese entities engage in widespread theft of U.S. trade secrets, as it seeks to become a leader in advanced manufacturing and artificial intelligence. U.S. businesses in China have long complained about being forced to hand over technology as the price of gaining access to the market.
U.S. Treasury’s undersecretary for international affairs David Malpass has ramped up his criticism of China in recent months, saying the country’s drive for economic liberalization has stalled, and in some instances reversed. The White House in December lumped China with Russia as powers seeking to weaken U.S. security and prosperity.