Theresa May has not asked EU leaders for sanctions against Russia in response to Salisbury nerve agent attack
Ms May is instead expected to press leaders to attribute blame to Russia at the meeting, EU sources familiar with officials’ meetings that have been taking place said.
Foreign ministers who met in Brussels on Monday agreed only that the “European Union takes extremely seriously the UK Government’s assessment that it is highly likely that the Russian Federation is responsible”, but did not say definitively that Russia was responsible. 
The ministers, who were privately briefed by Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson, also asked Russia to assist the investigation into the incident by opening its files on the Novichok nerve agent that the UK says was used in the apparent attempted assassination of former spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia.
The senior official said the focus at the Thursday and Friday meeting would likely be on a “common line on attribution and solidarity” as well as “a need to ensure coordination for the future”.
European Council President Donald Tusk is understood to be keen to attribute blame to Russia for the attack, but the decision would depend on the agreement of the other member states. 
A rift between Mr Juncker and Mr Tusk on the issue has appeared to open up behind the scenes, after a well-placed senior EU official said Mr Tusk had not written to Mr Putin in the way that Mr Juncker had. 
“As far as I know President Tusk hasn’t sent such a letter until now. I would not be surprised if he would not send one at all,” the official said.
Investigators in protective clothing remove a van from an address in Winterslow near Salisbury in Wiltshire, as police and members of the armed forces continue to investigate the suspected nerve agent attack on Russian double agent Sergei Skripa
A police officer on duty near the protective tent which covers the bench where a man and woman were apparently poisoned with what was later identified as a nerve agent, in Salisbury
Personnel in protective coveralls and breathing equipment cover an ambulance with a tarpaulin at the Salisbury District Hospital
Members of the emergency services in hazard suits fix the tent over the bench where Sergei and Yulia Skripal were found
Detective Sergeant Nick Bailey, who assisted the Russian ex-spy targeted with a nerve agent, was also hospitalised
Sergei Skripal speaks to his lawyer from behind bars seen on a screen of a monitor outside a courtroom in Moscow.
As well as the issue of Russia, the March European Council meeting will also consider the latest developments in the Brexit negotiations and how to respond to the looming trade dispute with Donald Trump’s administration in the EU – among other items on a packed agenda.
Advertising helps fund our journalism and keep it truly independent. It helps to build our international editorial team, from war correspondents to investigative reporters, commentators to critics.
If you are Private Browsing in Firefox, "Tracking Protection" may cause the adblock notice to show. It can be temporarily disabled by clicking the "shield" icon in the address bar.
Then click the big power button to whitelist the current web site, and its state will be remembered next time you visit the web site.