

			Kerala Women Launch Bare Chest Campaign On Facebook To Protest Professor’s ‘Melon’ Remark On Female Breast		


			Apology Accepted: Court Acquits Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, Co-Accused  Sisodia In 2 Defamation Cases By Gadkari, Sibal		


			Media Attention Given To Sridevi's Death Was A Ruse To Divert Attention From PNB Scam: Raj Thackeray Critises State Funeral		
Kerala Women Launch Bare Chest Campaign On Facebook To Protest Professor’s ‘Melon’ Remark On Female Breast
Kerala Women Launch Bare Chest Campaign On Facebook To Protest Professor’s ‘Melon’ Remark On Female Breast
At least two women from Kerala have gone topless on Facebook launching a campaign against a professor’s remark that girls display their chest like water melons.
According to Malayalam news portals, it all began after a man called Vishnu shared his partner Arathy SA’s topless picture on Facebook in protest against the professor’s remark. Later, Thiruvananthapuram-based Diya Sana posted on Facebook pictures of a topless woman holding watermelons. She said the photos belonged to her friend Rehana Fathima, a social activist and model, who had become the first woman to play Pulikkali, a traditional dance form where the artists wear tiger costumes.
Since then, the Facebook has removed their pictures and blocked their accounts. However, the women are now getting both bouquets and brickbats.
"I am teacher of a college where 80 per cent of the students are girls and of that, majority are Muslims. These girls are not wearing dress as per the religious tradition. They are not covering their chests with hijab. But showing part of it is like slice of red water melon being displayed," he has been heard saying in the clip, as translated by The Deccan Chronicle newspaper.
He had also slammed girls wearing leggings, saying the girl students hold purdah deliberately up to show off the leggings.  He also warns them that this kind of immoral dress style will lead them to losing both physical and spiritual worlds.
“What is wrong in uncovering your physique before people? The same social spaces which celebrate male bodies frown at female bodies and shame it. 'Nudity' becomes a taboo when a woman reveals her body. I have slammed this patriarchal attitude many a times," said Rehana, as quoted by Manorama.
Earlier, Kerala had witnessed a similar campaign against social taboo on breastfeeding in the open. A man posted his partner’s breastfeeding picture on social media. Later, Grihalakshmi magazine, carried a breastfeeding female model on its cover, with a caption, “Women Tell Kerala, Don’t Stare, We Need To Breastfeed”.
Harassing WOMEN does NOT make A MAN, It makes the person  A COWARD. RESPECT AND PROTECT WOMEN that's what makes the person A "MAN".
ZOOM THE FOLLOWING IMAGE TO SEE THE PROOF OF GRIEVANCE DESCRIPTION/STATUS WHICH I HAD ALREADY SENT TO THE PRIME MINISTER’S OFFICE and I had highlighted some of the CONFIDENTIAL lines like my Registration Number, etc in the following image with black so that it should not get in the hands of the wrong person.
Man Convicted Of Killing Left Leader In Kerala Received Parole Every Month For Three Years, Reveals RTI
Demonetisation Has Led To Tax Terrorism, Yashwant Sinha Calls Out PM Modi For His 'Whimsical Decisions'
Burka Is Symbolically Akin To Trishul, Says Ramachandra Guha In A Call To Liberals To Treat Communalism Of All Shades Alike
Govt To Give Rs 2.5 Lakh Incentive To Every Inter-Caste Marriage Involving A Dalit, Removes Income Cap