Emboldened president reserves strong words for activists in Hong Kong and Taiwan who want to ‘split China’
Xi also promised “rejuvenation” and warned against attempts to erode China’s unity during a speech at the close of the annual session of the National People’s Congress, the country’s annual parliament often derided by experts as little more than a show that lacks serious policy debate.
“The Chinese people have understood since ancient times that nothing is free,” he said. “To be happy, one must fight for it.”
“Removing term limits ruffled a few feathers in the Party and Xi is aware there might be some tough times ahead, especially with Trump threatening a trade war,” Varrall said. “He wants to tap into nationalism and show he is the person who can confront those challenges.”
Xi portrayed a world seeking to combat China’s peaceful rise on the global stage, and the need to push ahead at all costs. At the same time he worked to calm fears of an increasingly assertive foreign policy, saying: “China’s development will not pose a threat to any other country”.
Elections in 2016 in Taiwan, a self-ruled democracy claimed by China, saw a president elected who is wary of closer tied with the mainland.
“Any actions and tricks to split China are doomed to failure and will meet with the people’s condemnation and the punishment of history,” he said to a chorus of loud applause from the assembled officials.
“The Chinese people share a common belief that it is never allowed and it is absolutely impossible to separate any inch of our great country’s territory from China.”
In contrast to Xi’s speech, premier Li Keqiang focused on reassuring investors and businesses during his annual highly scripted press conference where questions are pre-screened. 
“China’s economy has been so integrated with the world’s, that closing China’s door would mean blocking our way for development,” he said. “China’s aim is to ensure that both domestic and foreign firms, and companies under all kinds of ownership structure, to be able to compete on fair terms in China’s large market.”
Foreign business have for years complained government regulations have produced an uneven playing field in China. Some of those policies, such as forced technology transfers and intellectual property theft, have drawn sharp criticism from Donald Trump.
“They’re talking about reforms but not as the international community understands them, China will still come first,” Varrall said. 