Both Facebook And Cambridge Analytica Threatened To Sue Journalists Over Stories On CA's Use Of Facebook Data

That’s because the more than 1 million Obama backers who signed up for the app gave the campaign permission to look at their Facebook friend lists. In an instant, the campaign had a way to see the hidden young voters. Roughly 85% of those without a listed phone number could be found in the uploaded friend lists.


Of course, there is one major difference between the Obama one and the Cambridge Analytica one, which involves the level of transparency. With the Obama campaign, people knew they were giving their data (and friend's data) to the cause of re-electing Obama. Cambridge Analytica got its data by having a Cambridge academic (who the new Guardian story revealed for the first time is also appointed to a position at St. Petersburg University) set up an app that was used to collect much of this data, and misled Facebook by telling them it was purely for academic purposes, when the reality is that it was setup and directly paid for by Cambridge Analytica with the intent of sucking up that data for Cambridge Analytica's database. Is that enough to damn the whole thing? Perhaps.


As for the claims that this is just the same old Facebook model of selling everyone's data... that was not true and still is not accurate. Facebook doesn't sell your data. It sells access to its users via the data it has on you. That may not seem different, but it is different. But the lines do seem to get a bit blurry, as it appears that Cambridge Analytica, via its partnership with the professor Dr. Aleksander Kogan (who apparently briefly changed his name to -- I kid you not -- Dr. Spectre) and his "Global Science Research," basically paid people via Amazon's Mechanical Turk to do a "personality assessment" on Facebook that, as part of the process, exposed information about their entire social graph, which GSR apparently hoovered up and passed along to Cambridge Analytica.


At the very least, it can be said that Facebook should have recognized much earlier that this could and would be done, and to understand the potential privacy problems related to it. Facebook has a fairly long and painful history of not quite realizing how what it does impacts people's privacy, and this is one more example.


The Observer also received the first of three letters from Cambridge Analytica threatening to sue Guardian News and Media for defamation.


There are issues of terminology here. Facebook, in its post, is adamant that what happened is not a "breach"


The claim that this is a data breach is completely false. Aleksandr Kogan requested and gained access to information from users who chose to sign up to his app, and everyone involved gave their consent. People knowingly provided their information, no systems were infiltrated, and no passwords or sensitive pieces of information were stolen or hacked.

If you're having trouble thinking of today's story as a "breach", try rephrasing it in your head as "Facebook fell prey to a social engineering attack in which it was convinced to hand over user data by an attacker who told it what it wanted to hear".


Of course, there is something of a difference: it still wasn't Facebook per se coughing up the info. It was Facebook's own users. And, you might even argue that if you believe that Facebook doesn't "own" all this data in the first place, that it was actually those Facebook users coughing up a bunch of their own data -- including lots of data about their friends. Needless to say, this is a mess where a lot more transparency might help, and that transparency is going to be forced upon Facebook with a sledgehammer in the near near future.


But, regardless of where you come down on all of this, Facebook threatening defamation against the Guardian for calling this a data breach is ludicrous and Facebook should be ashamed and apologize. Even as it clearly disagrees with how the Guardian characterized much of the story, that's no excuse to whip out defamation threats. Not only is it incredibly stupid from a Facebook PR perspective (and makes the company look like a giant bully), it suggests that the company still has absolutely no fucking clue how to communicate with the press and the public about how its own platform works.


It's actually quite incredible to recognize just how big Facebook has gotten in the face of how little it seems to understand about what its own platform does.

Maryland Court System Arbitrarily Decides Public Should No Longer Have Access To Police Officers' Names
It must be really bad when Facebook is already in full damage control mode. The agreement between the FTC and Facebook about data protection could be devastating for Facebook. A fine of US$ 40k per user times 50 million users equals US$ 2 trillion.
At the very least, it can be said that Facebook should have recognized much earlier that this could and would be done and to understand the potential privacy problems related to it. Facebook has a fairly long and painful history of not quite realizing how what it does impacts people's privacy, and this is one more example. 
The gullibility test is having information on Facebook for these social engineers to get information, you aren't willing to part with.
What the fuck, dude. You think the quote is not accurate? I linked to a search engine to point out multiple sources. If I had not embarrassed you in that other thread, you would not be following me around posting stupid shit like this. Crazy narcissist.
It's funny, isn't it? A person can't have an actual independent opinion, if a person counters any of the stupid conspiracy crap they must be ONE OF THEM!!!!! I know such fantasies help you people sleep at night, but if you'd actually talk to people in a mature and civil manner you'd be surprised at how many people you think are your enemy are just the same as you. Or, just having fun with lunatics at a safe distance..
Maybe Zuckerberg said that and maybe he didn't. All your DDG link proves is that some people think he said it. It's the equivalent of "a lot of people are saying..."
If I had not embarrassed you in that other thread, you would not be following me around posting stupid shit like this. Crazy narcissist.
OMG, "Thad" has again threatened to block an account name with script! HA, HA! What a sensitive little snowflake you are. Already used your only weapon of blinding yourself: WHAT NOW?
You see it already. No matter how well known the quote is, it's just flatly contradicted. The "PaulT" account is one of the most prolific fanboys-trolls.
Simply put -- though I try to warn reasonable people, none believe this for a while -- if you don't agree 100% with The Masnick, you will be contradicted and ad hommed; then your comments will be censored, I mean "hidden" as they euphemize, though those of fanboys NEVER are, no matter how vile and off-topic; and you'll soon be typing all upper-case just trying to get the fanboys to admit water is wet. Standard tactic against ALL dissenters here. Intent is to run you off: Masnick doesn't care about numbers of readers, only about pushing corporatist agenda.
 http://www.businessinsider.com/well-these-new-zuckerberg-ims-wont-help-facebooks-privacy-problems-20 10-5
 I don't think it requires any kind of conspiracy theorizing to believe that Zuckerberg has cavalier opinions about his customers' privacy and does not take securing their data seriously.
He doesn't seem to me like he's gotten any less arrogant since college. And he's only ever shown humility and a commitment to doing better when he's gotten caught and his stock price has suffered.
 You don't have to visit sites that require Facebook logins to read (and/or comment on), just move on if they do.
That's not always an option. I have two devices - including a new camera - where there was no mention that a Facebook account was required to use them, get firmware updates, etc.. Not even in third-party reviews. You only find out after you've opened the package.
You may want to just get a proper camera, like a 35mm. I know, it's old school, but you'll really learn a lot about the scientific and practical principles of photography by getting hands on with film. If you develop your own film (not too hard, just practice with it,) no privacy issues there. Plus, it's fun.
Zuckerberg is only 33, he's got plenty of time to age and let the pre-requisite old-age dementia set in before he can become president.
Considering he'll only be 36 for the elections in 2020 (and the minimum age to run is 35) I'd say he's got a few more decades to recover from this if he really wants to get involved in politics.
If a bank has to know everything about the customers they do business with, why doesnt Facebook? Facebook shouldnt be allowed to do business with countries or entities under US sanction. You should be able to get a full copy of the profile FB has built on you, and have it deleted if you request it. This should also be verifiable, and include steep fines if they dont comply.
If there are so many...why not give an example. The Russians even paid in RUBLES. Were they from entities that are under sanctions? Was it via a bank under sanction? If they were asked would they know? They get by with little or no regulation. That needs to change since they dont even seem capable of fixing the problem on their own
When you have millions of users throwing data at you, you have a responsibility to protect it from abuse/misuse.
Of course, there is one major difference between the Obama one and the Cambridge Analytica one -- which involves the level of transparency. With the Obama campaign, people knew they were giving their data (and friend data) to the cause of re-electing Obama. 
If my data is provided without my consent (by Facebook or by my "friends"), that's just a minor difference. I would never willingly authorize anyone to give my personal information to either group.
The only leak that occurred was from the professor, at the behest of Cambridge Analytica, who "leaked" it from their legitimately-agreed-to "academic research" database, into Cambridge Analytica's primary database.
The most Facebook that did wrong was not monitoring the professor close enough to make sure he was abiding by the terms of the agreement. Thus, Facebook is basically the victim of a phishing attack and giving data to false pretenses, not the victim of a leak.
However, I think it's pretty weak to threaten to sue journalists over reporting it as a leak. The difference is of a technical nature that the general public might not understand, nor care about -- Facebook still allowed their data to get stolen, and it doesn't matter much to them whether it was willingly handed over and misused, or unwillingly stolen.
 For keeping and collating in UN-necessary detail, far beyond any actual "targeting" could increase the value of advertising, Facebook and Google and many other globalist corporations need to be regulated out of existence.
Businesses that make money by collecting and selling detailed records of private lives were once plainly described as "surveillance companies." Their rebranding as "social media" is the most successful deception since the Department of War became the Department of Defense. - Edward Snowden (@Snowden) March 17, 2018
By the way: it's now clear that Snowden AND Kim Dotcom AND the EU court just last week ruling against "Investor-State Dispute" arbitration agree with me on the danger of corporatists and masnicks. Odd, ain't it, that so diverse a bunch agree? Yet Masnick is still for total surveillance.
Facebook's extended reputation management team at TD must be stressed this week. I feel for you guys, Mike.
Don't worry though, I believe in you. I'm sure you'll figure out how to spin this to make Facebook look like a victim.
Both Facebook And Cambridge Analytica Threatened To Sue Journalists Over Stories On CA's Use Of Facebook Data