Raj Babbar resigns as Uttar Pradesh Congress chief, say media reports; party yet to accept his resignation
Raj Babbar resigns as Uttar Pradesh Congress chief, say media reports; party yet to accept his resignation
Reform within Congress will only work if Rahul Gandhi corrects mistakes made within the party in the past
Rahul Gandhi in Karnataka: Congress chief invokes Mahabharat again, slams Modi on note ban, farmers' crisis
Arvind Kejriwal's apology spree hits roadblock: Arun Jaitley may not allow Delhi chief minister an easy escape
UPA denied separate religion tag to Lingayat in 2013, Karnataka govt doing vote-bank politics, says Ananth Kumar
Bernard Tomic's bid to mount comeback to top 10 hits roadblock after Round 1 loss in Challenger tournament in Lille
Bernard Tomic's bid to mount comeback to top 10 hits roadblock after Round 1 loss in Challenger tournament in Lille
Lionel Messi joins Argentina's training session at Manchester City ahead of World Cup warm-up against Italy
Commonwealth Games 2018: Weightlifter Vikas Thakur would look to mark his new weight category with gold at Gold Coast
Santosh Trophy: Mizoram stun six-time champions Goa in Group B opening fixture; Punjab edge past Odisha
To tackle Delhi pollution, Centre spent Rs 36 lakh on 140 air purifiers for Narendra Modi's offices and six federal depts between 2014 and 2017
To tackle Delhi pollution, Centre spent Rs 36 lakh on 140 air purifiers for Narendra Modi's offices and six federal depts between 2014 and 2017
Facebook gets hammered, Cambridge Analytica CEO Alexander Nix suspended as stunning data breach spooks users
Maldives to lift State of Emergency tomorrow, will charge former president Maumoon Gayoom, chief justice with bribery
Maldives to lift State of Emergency tomorrow, will charge former president Maumoon Gayoom, chief justice with bribery
Former Playboy model Karen McDougal files lawsuit seeking to discuss alleged relationship with US president
Donald Trump congratulates Vladimir Putin on reelection as Russia president, doesn't discuss alleged meddling in US election
Ex-French president Nicolas Sarkozy held over claims that he received campaign funding from Muammar Gaddafi
IndiGo says it is 'actively engaged' with Pratt & Whitney to get all of its grounded aircraft back in operation
Nandan Nilekani bats for privatisation of PSBs, says rationale behind bank nationalisation has ceased to exist
Why Ranveer Singh and Kangana Ranaut are true representatives of the ever-evolving Hindi film industry of today
Why Ranveer Singh and Kangana Ranaut are true representatives of the ever-evolving Hindi film industry of today
Former Talking Heads frontman David Byrne earns first top 10 album on Billboard chart with American Utopia
Raid box office collection: Ajay Devgn starrer continues strong run beyond weekend, inches closer to Rs 50 cr mark
British broadcaster ITV commissions Gurinder Chadha's Beecham House, a period drama set in 19th century Delhi
PSL 2018: Peshawar Zalmi survive Anwar Ali scare to beat Quetta Gladiators by a run as league returns home
PSL 2018: Peshawar Zalmi survive Anwar Ali scare to beat Quetta Gladiators by a run as league returns home
ICC World Cup Qualifier 2018: Rashid Khan spins Afghanistan to 5-wicket victory over United Arab Emirates
Highlights, PSL 2018, Peshawar Zalmi vs Quetta Gladiators, Eliminator at Lahore, Full cricket score: Zalmi win by 1 run
Nidahas Trophy 2018: 'MS Dhoni is a topper in a university, where I am studying,' says Dinesh Karthik
Google News Initiative launched along with an easier way to subscribe to news in its bid to fight fake news
Narendra Modi is not fighting corruption, he is corruption, says Rahul Gandhi at Congress' 84th plenary session
Congress president Rahul Gandhi, in one of his most scathing attacks on the prime minister, said on Sunday that Narendra Modi 'is not fighting corruption; he is corruption.'
Taking a swipe at the prime minister over the PNB fraud, Rahul said, "Modi gives Modi 30,000 crores of your money and in turn, Modi gives Modi money for marketing Modi and fighting elections. Even in cricket, the most corrupt name is similar to that of our prime minister. The name Modi symbolises the collusion between India's biggest crony capitalists and the prime minister of India," said Rahul. "Today, the corrupt and powerful control the conversation in the country," added Rahul.
Talking about the Rafale controversy, Rahul alleged that Modi personally changed the deal. "We paid Rs 570 crores per plane and Modi paid Rs 1,670 crores for the same plane. He paid Rs 1,100 crore more per plane. Forget fighter planes, you can’t trust such a man to buy vegetables!," he said.
About BJP's recent electoral performances, Rahul said, "Modi's expression has changed after the recent defeats. He is probably scared that now if we have lost parts of Gujarat, we might be in trouble in the 2019 general elections."
Saying that the BJP has spread fear everywhere and even the media is scared of Modi, the Congress president said, "For the first time in history, Supreme Court judges sought justice from public," said Rahul. Recalling the Vyapam scam and paper leaks, Rahul said, "Education is not just for the elites. If we come to power, we will ensure higher education in every nook and corner."
Drawing a Mahabharata analogy, Rahul said, "The Kauravas were powerful and arrogant. The Pandavas were humble and fought for the truth. Like the Kauravas, the BJP and RSS are designed to fight for power. Like the Pandavas, Congress is designed to fight for truth."
Acknowledging that the Congress has made mistakes, Rahul said, "The last government we formed did not stand up to the expectations of the people. The people of the country were let down by us".
He said that India expects more from the Congress because it holds it to a higher standard than any other party.
Taking a jibe at Amit Shah, Rahul said that, "The RSS will even accept a man accused of murder as the president of the BJP."
"They tell Muslims of India, who never went to Pakistan and supported this great nation, that you don't belong here. They tell the Tamils to change their beautiful language, they tell the people of the North East that they don't like what you eat. They told Gauri Lankesh and Kalburgi that if you question us, you will die. They tell our honest businessman to shut up and allow corrupt officers to extort their hard earned money. They tell our farmers to work for nothing," said Rahul.
The Congress president also assured that ground level workers of the party will get tickets and that he wishes to break the wall between the grassroots workers and leaders.
Union defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman, addressing the media after Rahul Gandhi's speech, said that the Congress president's accusations were the 'rhetoric of a loser.'
Sitharaman said, "While the Congress compares itself to the Pandavas, its leader questions the existence of Ram." She alleged that the party 'always chooses to mock Hindu rituals.'
Sitharaman added, "How can the Congress refer to themselves as Pandavas? They imposed the Emergency and were solely responsible for the anti-Sikh riots. They were involved in corruption cases worth Rs 12 lakh crore."
Referring to the results of the recent bypolls in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, she said, "The BJP graciously accepted its mistakes and said that it would work on them. However, the Congress lost its deposit."
The defence minister also touched upon the concerns raised by four Supreme Court judges, saying that, "These are the internal concerns of the judiciary and they will sort it out. Since when has the Congress become the protector of the judiciary?"
Published Date: Mar 18, 2018 18:47 PM
                                                | Updated Date: Mar 18, 2018 19:31 PM
                                            
Congress plenary session updates: Modi is not fighting corruption, he is corruption, says Rahul Gandhi
Rahul Gandhi just doesn't get it; beyond trashing Modinomics, there's nothing in Congress' economic resolution 
Rahul Gandhi should apologise for misdeeds of Congress before criticising Narendra Modi: Prakash Javadekar
Reform within Congress will only work if Rahul Gandhi corrects mistakes made within the party in the past
Why Ranveer Singh and Kangana Ranaut are true representatives of the ever-evolving Hindi film industry of today
39 Indians killed in Mosul: Spat over 'delay' in announcing deaths unfortunate; government can't jump gun
Bernard Tomic's bid to mount comeback to top 10 hits roadblock after Round 1 loss in Challenger tournament in Lille