A damaged home and streets littered with debris are seen after Hurricane Irma passed through Florida on September 13, 2017. Credit: Joe Raedle/Getty Images,
The devastating hurricanes and wildfires that caused widespread destruction across several U.S. states and territories last year have already cost insurance companies billions of dollars, a ThinkProgress analysis of recent corporate financial disclosures found.
According to annual reports recently filed by 15 major U.S. insurers, natural disasters in 2017 have so far cost the industry at least $14.5 billion.
As all of the companies state, the losses were mainly due to hurricanes Harvey, Maria, and Irma, along with the historic California wildfires (many were also hit hard by earthquakes in Mexico, but those figures were not included in the ThinkProgress total).
Climate risks, however, are not being ignored by the insurance industry. Repeatedly, the losses incurred from these catastrophes were described in the annual filings as “significant.” And several companies linked the growing uncertainty and severity of these types of events to climate change.
“Losses from weather-related natural catastrophes set a new record. Insured losses were almost three times higher than the average of US$49bn,” Munich RE’s analysis states.
In order to determine losses incurred from the natural disasters experienced in the U.S. and territories, ThinkProgress looked at the annual filings released by major U.S. insurers Argo Group, Progressive, American Financial, W.R. Berkley, and Berkshire Hathaway. The analysis also includes major Texas insurers CNA Financial, Allstate, AIG, Travelers, Chubb, and Assurant, and companies that insure a large number of Florida properties, such as Universal Insurance and Blue Capital Reinsurance.
Two other reinsurance companies also examined were Validus and Everest. When multiple natural disasters hit in a short period of time, this puts increased pressure on reinsurance companies, which are there to help the insurance companies cover the costs.
All together, the loss from natural disasters in 2017 incurred by these 15 insurance companies totaled at least $14.5 billion.
The $14.5 billion figure reached is therefore lower than the total amount of loss incurred due to all disasters experienced last year. Losses not considered in the ThinkProgress analysis include damages from the devastating September earthquake in Mexico, as well as any non-weather related events, such as car accidents. Storms occurring elsewhere in the world, such as in Europe or Asia, were also not included in the analysis.
While several companies disclosed detailed numbers for the cost of each extreme weather event or natural disaster, others simply gave a single figure for the total cost of all catastrophic events. For this reason, ThinkProgress did not include Argo Group and W.R. Berkley in its final total. Despite both companies declaring that catastrophe losses were primarily linked to natural disasters last year, no breakdown was provided; as a result, there was no way of knowing the scale of loss linked specifically to wildfires and hurricanes.
There were also instances in which a company may have experienced some loss from a hurricane or other event, but, due to quirks in the disclosure process, these numbers were not reflected in the report. For instance, some companies only disclose losses for major catastrophes if the dollar amount is above a certain threshold — sometimes above $50 million in losses or above $100 million.
All of this, combined with the fact that at time of publishing some major national insurance companies (such as Liberty Mutual and Nationwide) had not yet released their 2017 annual reports, means the full scale of the financial impact from last year’s natural disasters is still being tabulated. The billions in losses disclosed so far by insurance companies is only the beginning.
Each company was contacted by ThinkProgress to confirm or correct the figures, as well as comment on the impact of last year’s events. Only Berkshire Hathaway and CNA Financial did not explicitly state whether our understanding of the numbers for their company were correct and simply referred ThinkProgress back to the 10-K annual report. Progressive, W.R. Berkley, and Argo failed to respond. No companies would comment beyond their corporate filings or other publicly available documents.
The cost of recovering from last year’s storms has been monumental. And across the board, insurance companies recognized the impact of these record-breaking events. Over and over again, these catastrophic events were highlighted as a key reason last year’s financial losses were so high.
As NOAA economist Adam Smith said at the time, “2017 was a historic year for billion-dollar weather and climate disasters.”
These recent storms also demonstrate the mounting difficulty for car insurance companies to increase profits, Deloitte explained. For example, “Hurricane Harvey is believed to have damaged more vehicles than any storm in history — perhaps as many as one million,” the company said.
Looking ahead, Deloitte has flagged “soaring natural catastrophe claims due in part to climate change” as one of the “possible speedbumps” for the industry in 2018.
The amount natural disasters such as hurricanes cost insurance companies is typically less than the total damage cost from an event. This is because damage estimates include things like loss of wages, power outages, and increased cost of living expenses, which aren’t covered by insurance.
Thanks to climate change and Trump's policies, we won't have to wait another 25,000 years for the next one.
“There are two big stories here,” Cynthia McHale, director of insurance at CERES, told ThinkProgress. “2017 was a really bad year for extreme weather [globally], and it was also a really bad year in terms of the protection gap.” The protection gap is the difference between the economic losses (the total cost) and losses covered by insurance.
And McHale expects this trend to continue. With more intense flooding and sea level rise on the horizon, the damages most likely to become more severe with climate change are those least covered by insurance, she explained. So while climate change will get more costly for insurers, McHale said, “relative to the total damages, their proportion will continue to go down.” 
With climate change, storms are likely to become wetter, more intense, and will hit regions that have previously been less affected by such storms in the past. This will likely further increase both damages and the protection gap.
The increasingly severe coastal storms, however, don’t seem to have deterred construction of new properties along coastlines. So, as more people continue to live in vulnerable areas, the amount of property at risk will go up, too — and this will likely contribute to higher damages in the future.
The effects and frequency of climate change-related events are difficult to predict, companies and analysts recognize. And the insurance industry is increasingly exposed to significant financial losses due to climate change, according to Moody’s. The economic impact to property-casualty insurance and reinsurance companies due to climate change, it says, “outweigh the potential opportunities.”
We’re kind of on this course where the lines keep widening in terms of the losses versus what’s insured.” As a result, the recovery time will only get longer.
“I just know for communities to build back and build back quickly and get on their feet,” she said,”[if] they don’t have recourse to insurance to get the money so they can make those repairs, it takes a lot longer and it’s a lot harder.”