Video of Ahed Tamimi's confrontation with Israeli soldiers went viral. Many Palestinians consider her a symbol of defiance, while many Israelis see her instead as a provocateur.

                    
                    Ahmad Gharabli/AFP/Getty Images
                    
                
Ahed Tamimi, then 16, stands for a hearing in the military court at Ofer military prison on Jan. 1. She accepted a plea bargain and is to be released in July, her lawyer said.
A Palestinian teenager who gained international attention after a video showed her slapping and kicking an Israeli soldier has agreed to plead guilty to assault charges and will serve eight months in prison.
But many Israelis consider her a provocateur, similar to members of her family who have protested Israeli policies for years.
Tamimi, who was 16 at the time, was later arrested and indicted on 12 charges, including assault of an Israeli soldier, and charges related to other incidents going back to 2016, when she allegedly threw rocks, threatened and assaulted Israeli forces.
Both Tamimi and her mother, Nariman Tamimi, have been held in jail for three months, and they will serve an additional five months as part of plea agreements, NPR's Daniel Estrin reports.
Although she is a teen, Ahed Tamimi, will also pay a fine equivalent to about $1,400, her lawyer Gaby Lasky said Wednesday, according to The Associated Press.
Her father, Bassem Tamimi, told the AP that the family agreed to a plea deal because prosecutors had threatened the mother and daughter with three years' detention.
Lasky said that the sentence includes time already spent in detention and that Tamimi will be released in July.
In the video, Israeli soldiers largely avoid reacting to Tamimi besides swatting her hand away. Military prosecutors said her slapping and kicking was assault.
Israeli Deputy Prime Minister Michael Oren told NPR's Daniel Estrin that "for an Israeli audience to see again and again photos of our [service member] children being beaten up and not have the army react in any way was very, very difficult for the society."
Many Israelis say members of Tamimi's family have exploited her into creating confrontations with Israeli soldiers on video.
However, NPR's Estrin and Merrit Kennedy note: "The altercation with soldiers happened shortly after Tamimi's cousin was shot in the head with a rubber bullet during a demonstration as he climbed a wall of a complex that Israeli soldiers had commandeered," according to Bassem Tamimi.
The father also told NPR that the confrontation was in part spurred by Ahed seeing relatives being arrested and killed.