Peter Madsen admits dismembering the journalist - but denies he intended to kill Ms Wall or that he had a sexual interest in her.
Jurors watched videos found on a murder suspect's hard drive which showed women being decapitated and impaled.
Danish inventor Peter Madsen, 47, is accused of torturing and killing Swedish journalist Kim Wall during a private submarine trip.
Madsen says the 30-year-old freelance journalist died when the air pressure suddenly dropped and toxic fumes filled his homemade submarine, while he was up on deck.
He has admitted dismembering her body and throwing it overboard, but denies the charge of premeditated murder.
The prosecution has meanwhile painted a picture of Madsen as a sexual sadist who was obsessed with beheadings and murdered Ms Wall as part of a sexual fantasy.
She then sits down naked before a man moves behind her and slits her throat several times. He decapitates her and holds her head in one hand.
When the prosecutor asked Madsen why he watched the movie, he replied: "Why, have you seen Seven?", referencing a violent thriller which revolves around grizzly murders.
A video called 'Beheading girl' which showed a real woman having her throat slit was also shown to court.
The inventor says other people had access to the hard drive and he rejects any link between watching such videos and actually beheading someone.
Madsen, who at some points during the hearing referred to himself in the third person, reiterated his argument that he searched for such material for "emotional reasons, not erotic reasons."
A motive has not been established for the alleged murder and an autopsy has been unable to determine Ms Wall's cause of death.
Ms Wall around the head, arms and legs before beating her and stabbing her repeatedly in her genital area
They say the successful young journalist was stripped and then dismembered with a saw, before her body parts were put in bags, weighed down and dumped in Koge Bay, off Copenhagen.
Asked about cutting up Ms Wall's body, Madsen refused to go into detail, saying: "It's something so horrible that I do not want to go into detail. I will just say, that it was horrible."
Madsen told the court the 14 stab wounds to Ms Wall's genital area were not sexual in nature, saying he was not sexually attracted to her.
"I considered where gases build up inside dead people when they decompose. They do so in different places. Therefore I tried to puncture that region," he said.
"There is nothing sexual in the stabs hitting her vagina. I know you would like to think so, but to me there is nothing sexual to that," he told the prosecutor.
The accused also told the Copenhagen court he occasionally filmed his sexual encounters with women with an action camera mounted on his forehead.
Madsen has admitted lying to investigators and changing his account of what actually happened to Ms Wall several times.
The prosecution has said it will seek a life sentence, which in Denmark averages around 16 years, or safe custody, a legal alternative which would keep him behind bars indefinitely as long as he is deemed dangerous.