The Chinese state broadcaster CCTV revealed a brief clip of an ageing Type-59 tank fitted with new remote control technology and seemingly being driven by a soldier sitting at a nearby control deck.
State media said the Chinese military was investigating how to network the tanks to aircraft and satellites to work in a quicker and more lethal way than human driven versions.
Defence experts said the attempt appeared to be the latest foray into unmanned technology as part of a major overhaul of the People’s Liberation Army.
China's President Xi Jinping inspecting People's Liberation Army soldiers at a barracks in Hong Kong in June 2017
President Xi Jinping, who recently scrapped presidential term limits to set himself up as a potential leader for life, is reforming the army. Earlier this month China announced that its military budget for 2018 is 1.11 trillion yuan (£125 billion) – up 8.1 percent from 2017 – as the government targets becoming a global superpower by 2050.
“Although the CCTV footage shows the country has managed to operate tanks using remote control, there are still many technical problems that need to be resolved before they can achieve the same combat capabilities as manned tanks,” the Global Times said.
Samuel Cranny-Evans, a land warfare platform analyst at IHS Jane's, said China had a history of experimenting with unmanned vehicles.
He said: "It's difficult to say why they are doing it, but we do know that they are trying to modernise their forces extensively and inherent in that is building lots of new technologies."
He said it was unclear why the remote control technology had been fitted to obsolete T-59 tanks, rather than a more modern vehicle.
He said: "It could be that they are developing the technology to control unmanned tanks so that they could put it on something better."
He said: "The armour on them is really not good enough for a modern battlefield, but this is only a problem if you have people inside. They could use them as a way to add firepower."
Other militaries have also looked at the possibility of using unmanned tanks, but have struggled with how they might be deployed.
Russia is believed to have gone furthest in developing the weapons and has said its new Armata main battle tank will have the potential to be fully unmanned.
Holland and Barrett remove krill products from shelves after warning they were stealing food from penguins
Donald Trump vows Joe Biden would 'go down hard, crying all the way' after 'threat' to beat up US president
Russia's spy network at risk as EU agrees 'highly likely' country carried out Salisbury nerve agent attack
Martin Luther King by Trevor McDonald review: a fine report on the positive changes in racial equality that King pioneered
Police apologise after officers post selfie from scene of fatal stabbing, saying it was 'insensitive'
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.