The hope was for the leaders to meet face-to-face during a period of peace — but it looks like tensions may soon be on the rise.
Lt. Col. Christopher Logan, a Pentagon spokesperson, said the exercise will involve about 11,500 US and 290,000 South Korean troops. They will jointly practice air, sea, and special operations.
United Nations Command — an international force that helps stabilize the Korean peninsula — told North Korea’s army of the timing and duration of the drills so there wouldn’t be any misunderstanding. 
David Shear, who served as the Pentagon’s top Asia official from 2014 to 2016, told me the exercises will be the first test of how serious North Korea’s diplomatic overtures really are. If the country threatens the US or South Korea during the drills, then perhaps Pyongyang puts the Trump-Kim summit in doubt. But if North Korea stands by for the full month, then maybe it really does want to sit down with the US for talks.
At a minimum, that means North Korea’s missile program is more troublesome than we knew. Last year, North Korea proved it had an intercontinental ballistic missile capable of hitting all of the United States. Germany just confirmed it — and other European countries — is within range, too.
That’s legitimately scary, because the specter of a US-North Korea conflict hung over much of 2017. Now it looks like there’s another — again, very unlikely — path to war. 
With so many artillery pieces and rocket launchers trained on Seoul, Kim has the ability to quickly blanket the densely packed city with huge amounts of nerve agents. The human toll would be staggeringly high: The military historian Reid Kirby 
 last June that a sustained sarin attack could kill up to 2.5 million people in Seoul alone, while injuring nearly 7 million more. Men, women, and children would very literally choke to death in the streets of one of the world’s wealthiest and most vibrant cities. It would be mass murder on a scale rarely seen in human history.
The question now is how North Korea will react to this news. Even though South Korea’s anti-artillery missiles are defensive in nature, it’s more than likely North Korea will see them as a provocation.
The optimistic view is that Trump’s upcoming potential meeting with Kim would give the North Koreans reason to turn a blind eye to things that they might have otherwise felt the need to respond do. The pessimistic one is that a failed summit could make the existing tensions worse. If the meeting with Kim goes badly, Shear told me, “we’ll be in a worse spot.”