This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2018 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.
In today's digital dating world, communicating clearly can sometimes get lost in translation. That's why new relationship terms have taken on a life of their own. Here are 5 new dating terms you should know.
“Mosting is when someone goes overboard on the fluff job and then vanishes. It’s not just someone being complimentary and flattering; it’s someone faking being totally smitten when they aren’t,” journalist Tracy Moore wrote. “It’s the worst of the love crimes in many ways, because a lot of people can act charming just for sex, but only a certain breed of total phony will cry love.”
Naturally, the Twitterverse has reacted to the dawn of “mosting” with heated emotion. Many slammed the “messed up” rise of false online flirtation as the crux of both this issue and other negative dating phenomenon.
“Online dating has created a sea of gutless wonders ... people treat each other as disposable ... constantly looking to see if the grass is greener elsewhere. Don’t like your girl/guy? Don’t worry, there’s an app for that,” one user wrote. “#RIPchivalry.”
“These things happened in past but devices give new options on levels of ambiguity and pain,” another added.
“In many cases the man may truly feel the passion that he is showing up front, only to realize later on that he just isn’t feeling it anymore. Rather than confront the woman, he takes the cowardly way out and just disappears altogether,” Pompey said. “This is the mark of an immature and inconsiderate man that shows no regard for the emotions of the person is involved in.”
“These types of men need to learn how to deal with their own issues before they can ever be committed in a happy and giving relationship,” he adds.
Erotic model and sexologist claims nude jogging and skinny-dipping in cold water is key to looking young
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2018 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.