
Three-year inquiry into Army instructors who 'kicked, punched and made recruits eat manure' collapses

Courts martial for the instructors at the Army Foundation College collapsed after the judge ruled the military police had mishandled the investigation so badly, the soldiers could not get a fair trial.
Eyewitnesses who contradicted the accusations were not questioned and investigators failed to gather photos which undermined the claims.
The defendants themselves were not asked for statements until years after the alleged abuse, when evidence that could have supported them was already lost.
Lewis Cherry called for a full investigation into the Royal Military Police’s failings and the senior officers who had overseen them.
He warned similar decisions could potentially have tainted other cases, including the Operation Northmoor investigation into alleged abuses in Afghanistan.
“I represented soldiers in each of the trials, and they and their families are relieved that the nightmare of these false allegations hanging over them for many years is over.”
Military police and the Service Prosecution Authority launched one of the largest inquiries into the alleged abuse of young recruits after allegations 16 and 17-year-old junior soldiers at the Army’s college in Harrogate had been ill treated by instructors during a battle camp at Kirkcudbright in 2014.
The accused faced ill-treatment and battery charges after it was alleged they slapped or punched the trainees in the face, spat at them, grabbed them by the throat, held their faces under water, or ordered them to eat animal manure.
The junior soldiers at first made no complaints, but had later been overheard talking about their training experiences months later while undergoing further training at Catterick. An officer allegedly told the soldiers to write accounts of what had happened and he passed them up the chain of command.
Judge Large condemned the Royal Military Police for a "seriously flawed" and "totally blinkered approach" to the investigation.
He said the lead military police investigator, Capt Teresa Spanton, had taken the “frankly, startling” decision to not question eyewitnesses - including a major, several captains and a warrant officer - because she believed they would lie in their witness statements.
He said: “The decision not to interview, at any stage during a very long enquiry, such highly relevant eye-witnesses is a very serious breach of the duty of police officers to investigate a case fairly and objectively.”
Investigators also failed to check photos of the bayonet training until years into the investigation. The recruits had said they were manhandled by their webbing, but the photographs showed they were not wearing any.
An Army spokesman said the RMP and Service Prosecution Authority would now be holding a review “to ensure that lessons are learned”.
 “Despite the outcome, we will consider carefully whether any internal disciplinary action is necessary.”
Austin bomber could be carrying out 'trial run' for bigger attack as new blast raises fears in Texas area
Guernsey could become first place in British Isles to have a suicide clinic with vote on assisted dying laws
Essay mill websites must warn students about risks of submitting fake work, advertising watchdog rules
Drugs to vaccinate over-50s against Alzheimer’s could be here in a decade...with a £ 9bn price tag
Corbyn and McCluskey tighten grip on Labour party as ally Jennie Formby appointed party's new general secretary
Russian agents learn from Litvinenko errors to devise hit on Sergei Skripal that leaves police baffled
The Great Celebrity Bake Off, episode 3, review: Jamie Laing, heir to the McVitie's fortune, bakes the worst cake ever 
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.