The Northern Territory coroner has told an inquest into the death of an elderly Aboriginal man the actions of police could be viewed as "heavy-handed" but not "contemptuous".
Mr Young, whose first name has not been used for cultural reasons, died in hospital in March 2016, nearly a fortnight after falling and hitting his head shortly after an officer roused him from his sleep.
"There wasn't blood on the floor... no fights breaking out such as to give police the power to do what they wanted to do," Coroner Greg Cavanagh said.
"So to go in the way they did... is to some extent heavy-handed, but you couldn't categorise it as contemptuous.
Mr Young was not doing anything wrong at the time of the incident, but police and paramedics attended because a woman residing at the property had asked them to leave. 
The inquest heard Mr Young's family held concerns the officer responded in the manner they did because he was Aboriginal.
Acting Assistant Commissioner Tony Fuller took offence to the suggestion of racial stereotyping, but told the inquest he understood why the family would think that "because police come into contact with Aboriginal people quite regularly".
On Monday, the officer in charge of the investigation into Mr Young's death, Detective Senior Sergeant Daniel Ralph, said officers may not have been acting lawfully, but only on a "purely technical point of law".
Mr Fuller today conceded police had "no power" to wake him and said it was a "failing" of the Trespass Act. 
He said the act was "obviously very problematic", was not relied upon because of "all these ambiguities" and that he would "welcome any changes".
However, Mr Fuller told the inquest officers "had an obligation for Mr Young's care" and acted in good faith in speaking to him, to determine whether he had a "lawful reason to be there".
Counsel Assisting the Coroner, Kelvin Currie, said there needed to be a better understanding for frontline officers who found themselves in similar scenarios, and possible legislative changes.
Mr Fuller said the housing complex was "not a nice place" and was "renowned for anti-social, alcohol and drug-fuelled violence".
ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.
If you're angry with Facebook and wondering if it's time to ditch Facebook from your life, you're not alone.
Most critics agree NATO needs to change so it remains an effective military force. Four experts weigh in on what needs reworking.
Education is more than a number, more than a ranking and more than a competition. So why are we still ranking students with an ATAR at the end of high schools?
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.