Any allegation of misconduct levelled at Cardinal George Pell while he was in the sacristy at a cathedral could not possibly have happened, a Melbourne court has been told.
Catholic priest Charles Portelli gave evidence to Cardinal Pell's committal hearing as he fights historical sexual offence charges involving multiple complainants.
Father Portelli assisted the 76-year-old during cathedral ceremonies and told the hearing Cardinal Pell was never alone, before, after or during those masses.
He told the hearing he would help Cardinal Pell put on and take off his robes for masses in the sacristy.
Defence barrister Robert Richter QC asked Father Portelli if it would have been possible for someone apart from other clergy or their assistants to have been in the sacristy when the archbishop was also inside with his robes on.
Father Portelli said it was "absolutely" impossible any allegation of misconduct levelled at Cardinal Pell while he had his vestment on in the sacristy could be true, as he was never alone there while robed.
He said he would normally leave the cathedral with Cardinal Pell after mass so he could drive him to any afternoon engagements.
But Father Portelli told the court there had been instances when Cardinal Pell did not have any post-mass commitments and would leave alone.
Earlier, the court was told one of the witnesses due to be called at the committal hearing had unexpectedly provided a new statement to police on Monday.
His first statement had placed Cardinal Pell at the location where some of his offending is alleged to have occurred, the court was told.
Mr Richter said the man's latest statement had raised questions about whether further charges would be laid and asked for him to be removed from the police brief of evidence.
It is expected to be another two weeks before the hearing concludes and Magistrate Belinda Wallington rules on whether there is enough evidence to commit Cardinal Pell to stand trial.
ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.
If you're angry with Facebook and wondering if it's time to ditch Facebook from your life, you're not alone.
Most critics agree NATO needs to change so it remains an effective military force. Four experts weigh in on what needs reworking.
Education is more than a number, more than a ranking and more than a competition. So why are we still ranking students with an ATAR at the end of high schools?
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.