The student patrols wear camouflage and helmets, and perform intimidating night-time drills marching around Binzhou Vocational College, in the eastern Shandong province, according to videos shared on Chinese social media.
A college official said the squads were responsible for clamping down on a range of "inappropriate behaviour", including smoking and dropping litter. 
But many in China were outraged that they have also been given powers to warn couples against showing public affection, and to threaten them with being named and shamed for their behaviour.
Many in China - particularly older generations - are deeply conservative, and public affection is rare in the country.
But an adventurous generation of young, mainly urban Chinese are pushing back the frontiers of what is accepted, and attitudes are far removed from the puritan days of radical Communist Party rule that their parents lived under.
An adventurous generation of young, mainly urban Chinese are pushing back the frontiers of what is accepted
Crass and vulgar comment has been targeted on the Chinese Internet, while authorities have sought to curb news reports which promote "Western values".
But Binzhou Vocational College's student squads sparked a backlash on social media after a video went viral showing a trio of men wearing helmets and military attire confronting a couple who were embracing.
The Paper, a Shanghai-based news portal, quoted a college employee saying that the patrol had only sought to give the couple a warning, but that the male student “threw a fit”.
There were many comments on Sina Weibo, China's version of Twitter, expressing anger that touchy-feely couples were being intimidated by the military-style squads.
Media reports said the school had warned in an online post that “serious offenders” could have their names released and face public criticism on the campus.
It comes after another college in the city of Rizhao - which is also in Shandong province - came under fire last year for rolling out a campaign against kissing, cuddling and "uncivilised" behaviour. 
The Shandong Foreign Languages Vocational College set up a designated room where students could see photographs of their peers who been involved in "uncivilised behaviour”, such as holding hands.
Austin bomber could be carrying out 'trial run' for bigger attack as new blast raises fears in Texas area
Guernsey could become first place in British Isles to have a suicide clinic with vote on assisted dying laws
Essay mill websites must warn students about risks of submitting fake work, advertising watchdog rules
Drugs to vaccinate over-50s against Alzheimer’s could be here in a decade...with a £ 9bn price tag
Corbyn and McCluskey tighten grip on Labour party as ally Jennie Formby appointed party's new general secretary
Russian agents learn from Litvinenko errors to devise hit on Sergei Skripal that leaves police baffled
The Great Celebrity Bake Off, episode 3, review: Jamie Laing, heir to the McVitie's fortune, bakes the worst cake ever 
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.