Medical leaders have condemned the “unconscionable” readiness of doctors to prescribe rest, painkillers and to order intrusive tests when many patients should instead be advised to keep active.
The findings are published in a series of Lancet studies which names lower back pain as the leading cause of disability in the world.
The global burden of disability it causes has risen by more than 50 per cent since 1990, the research found.
Most cases of lower back pain respond to simple physical and psychological therapies aimed at keeping people active and able to stay in work.
However, medics routinely ignore their own guidelines and order surgery or scans instead of giving education and advice, according to the research.
“Millions of people across the world are getting the wrong care for low back pain,” said lead author Professor Jan Hartvigsen, from the University of Southern Denmark.
“Funders should pay only for high-value care - stop funding ineffective or harmful tests and treatments and, importantly, intensify research into prevention, better tests and better treatments.”
‘That so many people start out with minor back pain and go on to suffer life-changing consequences is bad enough; that healthcare professionals contribute to that journey is unconscionable,” said Steve Tolan, head of practice at the organisation.
“It is absolutely essential that we cut through the noise with these messages and it is to be hoped that today’s publication leads to a tangible difference in the way back pain is both talked about and treated.”
The Global Burden of Disease study (2017) found that low back pain is the leading cause of disability in almost all high-income countries as well as central Europe, eastern Europe, North Africa and the Middle East, and parts of Latin America.
Every year, a total of one million years of productive life is lost in the UK because of disability from low back pain, three million in the USA and 300,000 in Australia
Professor Helen Stokes-Lampard, chair of the Royal College of GPs, said family doctors were “mindful” of clinical guidelines which “advocate an approach that combines physical, psychological and pharmacological treatments”.
Holland and Barrett remove krill products from shelves after warning they were stealing food from penguins
Donald Trump vows Joe Biden would 'go down hard, crying all the way' after 'threat' to beat up US president
Russia's spy network at risk as EU agrees 'highly likely' country carried out Salisbury nerve agent attack
Martin Luther King by Trevor McDonald review: a fine report on the positive changes in racial equality that King pioneered
Police apologise after officers post selfie from scene of fatal stabbing, saying it was 'insensitive'
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.