It was unclear if the new statement would result in charges being laid, Richter told the court. However, he said that the witness’s original statement should be withdrawn. It is understood the witness’s allegations will now be dealt with in an investigation separate to the committal hearing currently taking place. Prosecutors did not dispute the case being handled in this way.
Witnesses who gave evidence on Tuesday morning, including a Catholic priest, Charles Portelli, and a retired schoolmaster, John Mallinson, were asked by Richter about their memories of the layout of St Patrick’s Cathedral in Melbourne in the late 90s. They were asked about who could enter and exit corridors and rooms without a key, including the priest’s sacristy, and about how closely choir boys were supervised by staff as they entered and exited the cathedral as part of a procession for mass. At the time, Pell was archbishop of Melbourne.
“There was never an opportunity for the archbishop to be alone in the priest’s sacristy?,” Richter put it to Portelli.
Richter also put it to Portelli that any allegation of misconduct by the archbishop in the sacristy during Sunday mass would be impossible due to who had access to the room. Portelli agreed.
However, Portelli told the court that other masses were held at the church throughout the year that did not fall on a Sunday and where the choir was required.
In the afternoon the court heard evidence from Maxwell Potter, who was sacristan at St Patrick’s Cathedral while Pell was archbishop. 
Richter told Potter that there was an allegation that “a couple boys had been in the priest’s sacristy … and the then archbishop came back all by himself, walked into the sacristy and did something to those boys”. 
He put it to Potter that given the limited access boys had to the room and the fact that it was often locked, there was no way this allegation could be true. Potter agreed.
Pell has attended each day dressed in a beige jacket, often sitting taking notes or with his head bowed. He has been supported throughout by his friend Katrina Lee, the executive adviser for the Catholic archdiocese of Sydney.
Pell is the highest-ranking Vatican official to be charged in the Catholic church’s long-running sexual abuse scandal. He has taken leave from the Vatican in Rome to attend court. He has strenuously denied all allegations.