Protests took place in more than 150 towns and cities including Paris, where crowds swelled to about 200,000 people, and the western city of Nantes, where demonstrators clashed with police and at least one car was torched.
An estimated 10 percent of public-sector workers took part in the mostly peaceful protests. Striking rail workers and air traffic controllers forced those sectors to cancel hundreds of trains and plane trips on Thursday.
The airline is also dealing with its own private strike, which will take place Friday as its workers call for a six percent pay increase.
Ahead of those strikes Friday, the airline said it expected to operate 80 percent of those short-haul flights and 70 percent of those medium-haul flights -- in addition to 70 percent of its long-haul flights.
Polls indicate most French citizens back the striking state employees, but even more support the financial reforms Macron has proposed.
March 22 (UPI) -- An Israeli man was detained by Polish authorities and issued a fine after urinating on a memorial to the victims of the Nazi death camp of Auschwitz.
March 22 (UPI) -- Ukrainian authorities arrested MP Nadia Savchenko on Thursday on allegations she plotted to overthrow the government.
March 22 (UPI) -- Former South Korean President Lee Myung-bak has been issued an arrest warrant after being charged with multiple counts of corruption.
March 22 (UPI) -- After weeks of conflict that produced more than 1,200 deaths, rebel fighters and their families began fleeing Syria's Eastern Ghouta region Thursday.
March 22 (UPI) -- The Japanese government says it has been "exchanging views" with North Korea ahead of planned summits between North Korea, the United States and South Korea.
United Press International is a leading provider of news, photos and information to millions of readers around the globe via UPI.com and its licensing services.
						
With a history of reliable reporting dating back to 1907, today's UPI is a credible source for the most important stories of the day, continually updated  - a one-stop site for U.S. and world news, as well as entertainment, trends, science, health and stunning photography. UPI also provides insightful reports on key topics of geopolitical importance, including energy and security.
					