The competitions where top prizes are NEVER given away: Big brands like McCain and Onken use small print to avoid handing out wins
INVESTMENT CLINIC: Is it true that one should invest in small companies because that's where the best growth is?
Should you give up pension perks for an 80% bonus? That's Royal London's sweetener if you forgo a generous yearly income
The shoppers who refuse to use anything but cash... while banks and politicians seem hell-bent on making Britain a cashless society
How to shield £17,500 interest from taxman: The three 'allowances' you can claim to cut your savings tax bill
Fury as BT charges rural familes £5,000 just to connect to the internet because they are too far from telephone exchanges
MARKET REPORT: Online gambling company 888 sinks as it says Auf Wiedersehen to Germany after web betting clampdown 
The £42bn social media backlash: Facebook slumps after data scandal while Snapchat and Twitter lose £2bn
ALEX BRUMMER: Melrose flies into trouble as its pension pledges and knowledge of defence are questioned
Where do Isa millionaires invest? We reveal their top 10 shares and funds - and tips to join their ranks
Isa rates rise as deadline draws nearer: Best one-year fixed-rate at 1.5% while top two year deal is 1.67%
Bumper delay windfall for passengers on Emirates after authorities rule that connections don't count as separate flights
House prices dipped at the start of 2018 but are up 4.9% on last year as property surges in remote corners of the UK
Revealed: Eight emerging scams you must watch out for over the next year including bogus Brexit investments and football World Cup fraudsters
Weary savers urged to ditch big banks' derisory cash Isas and maximise their interest with the best rates
Do not let the vast array of tax-free savings and investments baffle you: Seven essential rules for navigating the Isa maze
MOSCOW, March 20 (Reuters) - A Cold War-era scientist acknowledged on Tuesday he had helped create the nerve agent that Britain says was used to poison an ex-spy and his daughter, contradicting Moscow's insistence that neither Russia nor the Soviet Union ever had such a programme.
However, Professor Leonid Rink told the RIA news agency that the attack did not look like Moscow's work because Sergei and Yulia Skripal had not died immediately.
The Skripals remain alive but in critical condition more than two weeks after they were found unconscious in the English cathedral town of Salisbury. A policeman who helped them is also in hospital in a serious condition.
Rink said he worked under the Soviet Union at a chemical weapons facility where the Novichok military-grade nerve agent was developed. Asked if he was one of Novichok's creators, he told RIA: "Yes. It was the basis for my doctoral dissertation."
Moscow has denied any involvement in the Skripals' case or that the Soviet Union or its successor state Russia developed Novichok at all.
Echoing a theory floated in Russian state media, Rink said the British could have been behind the attack.
"It's hard to believe that the Russians were involved, given that all of those caught up in the incident are still alive," he said. "Such outrageous incompetence by the alleged (Russian) spies would have simply been laughable and unacceptable."
Inspectors from the world's chemical weapons watchdog have begun examining the poison used in the attack which London blames on Moscow.
Rink told RIA he had worked at a Soviet chemicals weapons research facility in the town of Shikhany in Russia's Saratov Region for 27 years until the early 1990s. Novichok was not a single substance, he said, but a system of using chemical weapons and had been called 'Novichok-5' by the Soviet Union.
"A big group of specialists in Shikhany and in Moscow worked on Novichok - on the technologies, toxicologies and biochemistry," he said. "In the end we achieved very good results."
Rink confessed to having secretly supplied a military-grade poison for cash that was used to murder a Russian banking magnate and his secretary in 1995. In a statement to investigators after his arrest, viewed by Reuters, Rink said he was in possession of poisons created as part of the chemical weapons programme which he stored in his garage.
Rink received a one-year suspended prison sentence for "misuse of powers" after a secret trial, according to a lawyer involved in the case.
Rink told RIA it would have been absurd for Russian spies to have used Novichok to try to kill the Skripals because of its obviously Russian origin and Russian name.
"There are lots of more suitable substances," he said. "To fire the equivalent of a powerful rocket at someone who is not a threat and to miss would be the height of idiocy."
He dismissed British media reports that Yulia Skripal could have unwittingly carried Novichok from Moscow as "utter nonsense", saying Novichok would not have survived the journey.
Once secret, Rink said the technology behind Novichok was now known to many countries including Britain, the United States and China, who he said were capable of manufacturing a version of Novichok.
However, he said the exact formula devised by the Soviet Union was unique and that it should be possible, based on a sample of the toxin used in the Salisbury attack, to say it was not "cooked up" in Russia.
Another Russian scientist called Vil Mirzayanov had done a lot to publicise the formulas used to produce Novichok, Rink said.
Mirzayanov, who now lives in the United States, told Reuters this month that only the Russian government could have carried out the attack.
Rink said he knew of "about five" scientists familiar with the Novichok technology who had left Russia in the 1990s.
"Permission to let them leave generated great surprise in our institute," Rink told RIA. (Editing by David Stamp)

          Set up a sensible stocks and shares Isa online - here are nine providers reviewed
          

          Carpetright and Mothercare shares plunge in retail bloodbath as fears for UK High Street escalate
          

          Want a home for under £100k? Only one spot in Britain now has properties averaging below a six-figure sum...
          

          These are the bad habits drivers say they witness on the road every day (but don't want to admit doing themselves)
          

          Boss of Micro Focus resigns as shares plummet 56% after software firm warns of slowing sales
          

          5G technology is coming to Britain - but will it really create an annual £6bn productivity saving?
          

          Charities miss out on £600m a year from those who don't tick the gift aid box when donating
          

          I am planning a wedding abroad, what's the safest and cheapest way to pay the venue and suppliers?
          

          How to save a fortune on the food shop: From 100 lettuce seeds for £1 to a crop of tomatoes on your windowsill
          

          Join the Caribbean oil rush as Trinity Exploration & Production looks set to drum up healthy returns
          

          I recently received a PPI payout - but a claims management firm is unfairly trying to take a 39% cut
          

          Speaking out for the first time, Rigby & Peller founder stripped of THAT warrant, insists she did not betray the Queen
          

          PROPERTY CLINIC: A neighbour's tall tree is starting to encroach on my property, can I get it cut back or removed?
          

          If money really was no object...the world's most expensive homes for sale revealed
          

          Three-bed house with stunning harbour views goes on sale in Cornwall for just £55k, but there's just one snag...
          