In 2011, Swedish scientists accidentally discovered an ‘impossible’ material called ‘Upsalite’ – and it’s about to hit the market
Swedish banks risk losing tens of billions of euros to fintech startups – here are the ones leading the charge
The CEO of a British property company earned £47 million last year — more than JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs' CEOs combined
A 37-year-old who created his dream job traveling the world gives his best advice on making it happen
Thousands to receive basic income in Finland: a trial that could lead to the greatest societal transformation of our time
Spotify's former recruiter reveals the top qualities you need to work at the world's hottest start-ups
This 31-year-old who couldn't afford a Rolex has built a $180 million watch empire in less than 5 years

  A former Indian official accused Donald Trump Jr. of pushing a
  "blatantly illegal" project in Mumbai.


  That project was halted after investigators found
  "irregularities," ProPublica wrote, adding that those probing the
  project were tipped off by a state lawmaker who suspect a $100
  million fraud and "gross violations."


  Trump Jr. then traveled to India in April 2012 along with
  partners and met with Chavan in hopes of getting the project up
  and running again.


  Chavan was told that Trump Jr. and the partners wanted to discuss
  investing in his state. Instead, they asked him to overturn that
  earlier decision.


  "I would get into trouble to sanction something that was
  blatantly illegal," he said, adding the plans were "not within
  the existing rules."


  The Trump Organization did break into the Indian market in 2014
  under a new government with the construction of Trump Tower
  Mumbai. That project is set to be finished in 2019 and is one of
  five Trump-affiliated projects being developed in the country.


  ProPublica reported that a Trump partner said they booked $15
  million in sales within one day during Trump Jr.'s India visit.


  Each of the Trump Organization's India projects are licensing
  deals in which the company provides the Trump name and manages
  the property.
