Is this what Australia is coming to? Man fights $330 fine in court after seven police cars were sent to a quiet park to catch cyclists without a helmet
Seven police cars were sent to  catch cyclists riding around a quiet park without helmets as they patrolled the peaceful protest.
Officers told cyclists in Sydney's Centennial Park on Saturday they 'would enforce the law' as riders protested against Australia's compulsory helmet laws.
But the approach has led to a fierce backlash from cycling groups, causing some to brand Sydney as the 'least friendly cycling city in the developed world'.
 Seven police cars were sent to catch cyclists in Sydney's Centennial Park on Saturday afternoon riding without a helmet during a peaceful protest
Officers told cyclists  they 'would enforce the law' as riders protested against Australia's helmet laws
One group called the new fines 'trivial offences' and groups around Australia took to the saddle to protest. 
Chris Standen had his case thrown out of court on Monday despite pleading guilty to riding without a helmet, court documents seen by Daily Mail Australia revealed.
'My $330 fine for riding a bicycle slowly and carefully while wearing a sunhat was dismissed in court this morning,' he tweeted.
'Trivial offence, no objective risk, good character etc. What a waste of police/court time (and mine).'
Groups said cases currently before the courts was a reason for the protests held throughout Australia
He described the court case on Monday as a 'waste of time' after the charges were dropped and said it was an 'only in Australia' example. 
Daily Mail Australia understands Mr Standen was wearing a sunhat and carrying a doctor's letter 'supporting his choice' when he was pulled over and fined.
Groups said cases currently before the courts was a reason for the protests held throughout Australia - including in Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane. 
Kathy Francis, the secretary of campaign group Freestyle Cyclists, said NSW Police had taken a 'punitive approach to cyclists', she told Daily Mail Australia 
'It is so disappointing that the NSW Police were unable to handle this situation in a more constructive way,' she added.
'The example from the other States and even from NSW in a previous protest, demonstrates that good policing can facilitate safe community protest in a way that builds good relations between the police and the public.'
The incident at the park on Saturday was also described as a public relations disaster for the force.
One woman was issued with an on-the-spot fine for riding without a helmet but protested the charge with an officer
Cyclists in New South Wales are now subjected to fines of $330 for riding without a helmet after new rules were introduced by roads minister Duncan Gray last year.
They argue cycling should be encouraged as congestion increases but the ride challenged the threats of high fines 'for something that is considered normal and is having the opposite effect'. 
Ms Francis added: 'NSW has fewer bike riders and a poorer safety record than the rest of the country and internationally is gaining a reputation as the least friendly cycling city in the developed world.' 
Footage shared by the Freestyle Cyclists page showed an officer telling cyclists that they would enforce the law.
Later in the clip, a woman is pulled over by an officer and is told she would be receiving a penalty notice.
The woman responds saying the new laws had made cycling dangerous because drivers no longer 'share the roads'. 
Rule 256 of the new cycling rules states a rider must wear an Australian Standard approved bicycle helmet, securely fitted and fastened on the riders head.

          Charles and Camilla's plot to slur Diana as a SCHEMING HYSTERIC and how the Prince's mistress orchestrated a secret battle to win hearts and minds
          

          Andrew Brady moves his belongings into Caroline Flack's plush home as they take their romance to the next level... and put 'cheating rumours' behind them
          

          'I recently had to get some sun damage removed': Caitlyn Jenner, 68, posts shocking photo with bloody nose as she tells fans to use sunblock
          

          Backside driver! Lauren Goodger flashes a smile as she showcases her VERY peachy derrière whilst perusing cars at Mercedes in Essex
          

          Ant and Dec are SNUBBED at the RTAs they lose in both categories and are no-shows... two days after embattled presenter's drink-driving arrest
          

          Make time together fun, use incentives and NEVER argue over the remote: We reveal the ultimate family hacks to make life a little easier 
          

          Coy couple? Paris Jackson and Cara Delevingne cuddle in bed while watching lesbian romance drama Carol
          

          'Drink-drive' TV star Ant McPartlin is holed up undergoing rehab at £1.6m rented home - as friends claim his £60m split from wife Lisa forced him off wagon 
          

          EXCLUSIVE: The Mummy Diaries' Billie Faiers BREAKS DOWN as she submits school application for Nelly... before setting stepdad up on dating site
          

          'Time to smash MY life!' Georgia May Foote reflects on tough year and to downwards spiral... hot on the heels of split from beau George Alsford
          

          Cheryl seeking 'high-impact TV roles after being released by record label Polydor' as she gets back to work following birth of baby Bear
          

          Bake Off fans mock Jamie Laing for 'banging on' about his biscuit heritage... as Prue Leith has to SPIT OUT his loaf cake
          

          'She's got no knickers on!' Five Star Hotel fans left in hysterics as Charlotte Dawson flashes her bum and flirts with father-to-be Spencer Matthews
          

          'Rose between two thorns!' Piers Morgan poses with GMB co-anchors Susanna Reid and Kate Garraway at the Royal Television Society Awards
          

          Amicable exes! Kourtney Kardashian is all business in flowy trousers as she and Scott Disick step out in Los Angeles suburbs
          

          'Making memories with this one': Smitten Megan McKenna posts loved-up snap with beau Mike Thalassitis as they jet off to Barbados for another holiday
          

          Daisy Lowe flashes her abs in a skimpy black sports bra and baseball jacket as she joins sports chic Louisa Johnson for store launch
          

          Black Mirror creator Charlie Brooker reveals filming has already begun on hit show's hotly-anticipated fifth season... as he scoops RTA award  
          

          Ready for spring! Supermodel Cindy Crawford, 52, shares throwback bikini photo from the Nineties as she says she's excited for warmer weather
          

          'Another day in paradise!' Lea Michele makes a splash in sexy black bathing suit as she hits the beach with mom Edith during getaway to Hawaii
          

          Mark Wright shows off muscular physique in a denim shirt as he steps out in the sunshine... after spending quality time with wife Michelle Keegan in LA
          

          On the Run! Beyonce sports white fishnet stockings on the back of a motorcycle driven by Jay Z as the power couple film video in Jamaica
          

          Ant and Dec 'cancel appearance at Sting's Geordie musical The Last Ship in Newcastle'... after embattled presenter's drink-drive arrest
          

          As Katie Boyle dies at 91, CHRISTOPHER STEVENS muses on the life of Eurovision Queen who was locked up in a lunatic asylum by her own father
          

          Pretty in pink! Bella Thorne dazzles in thigh-baring fuchsia wrap skirt and sheer turtleneck while out in New York
          

          Caroline Flack teases her cleavage in daring semi-sheer lace top and leopard print suit at the star-studded Royal Television Society Programme Awards
          

          'Megan is irrelevant': Pete Wicks is BANNED from seeing ex McKenna as he gushes about new romance with Shelby Tribble... after model twerks on Gatsby
          

          'I had this fascination with death': Demi Lovato reveals she had suicidal thoughts when she was just seven in candid interview with Dr. Phil
          

          Olivia Attwood and Holly Hagan pose up a storm before screaming in fear as they search for paranormal activity on Celebrity Ghost Hunt Live 
          

          Lizzie Cundy shows off her figure in a red bodycon dress and matching thigh-high boots as she attends star-studded restaurant bash in style
          

          Surfin' U.S-Kanye! Kim Kardashian displays her dangerous curves in more Yeezy rubber wetsuit shorts on rare day out with her pink-haired husband
          

          Fresh-faced Jemma Lucy flaunts her multiple inkings in tight black ensemble  as she joins a bra-flashing Kym Marsh at beauty event in Manchester
          

          It wasn't one! Queen to attend performance by reggae star Shaggy as part of Commonwealth concert at Royal Albert Hall to mark her 92nd birthday
          

          Smoking hot! Newlywed Emily Ratajkowski heads to marijuana dispensary with gal pal in plunging black dress with a sizzling thigh-high slit
          

          'I wish I'd told him "I love you, we'll find some help, it will be okay"': Emotional Zoe Ball recalls the last time she saw her partner before his tragic suicide
          

          'This is about Millie': Professor Green accused of taking a swipe at ex-wife as he shares cryptic 'gloating' post in the wake of her fashion line closure
          

          'This is difficult for us': 'Shocked' Holly Willoughby and Phillip Schofield FINALLY address Ant McPartlin... 24 hours after ignoring drink-drive arrest
          

          Ant and Dec both avoid the limelight and stay away from tonight's Royal Television Society awards despite being up for two major gongs 
          

          Curvaceous Demi Rose exhibits her eye-popping cleavage in VERY tiny semi-sheer pink lingerie for saucy Instagram snap
          

          'It wasn't gross or weird': Macaulay Culkin dishes on losing his virginity at 15... as he reveals new girlfriend Brenda Song is 'so good to me'
          

          Nicole Scherzinger looks the picture of elegance as she shows off her svelte figure in a low-cut cream dress at intimate London gig
          

          Bouncing back nicely! Amanda Bynes looks chic with red lipstick in LA as she returns to acting... three years after being placed on psychiatric hold
          

          Red-y for her closeup: Bikini model Daphne Joy shows off her toned tummy in tiny bottoms for a photo session in Miami
          

          'I wasn't anticipating this': Megan Fox gets emotional after Tyler Henry warns the star her mother will have to go through a 'transition' at age 60
          

          'Zig-a-zig-ah!' Spice Girl Mel B dons bold pink camouflage jacket emblazoned with the iconic lyrics to Wannabe
          

          Happiest place on Earth! Karlie Kloss looks cute in cherry print dress and Minnie ears as she joins her family on trip to Disneyland
          

          EXCLUSIVE Lindsay Lohan wears a headscarf as she gets back behind the wheel to race around Dubai sand dunes with her new Lawyer.com team
          

          'A lot of great stuff': Show creator Ryan Murphy confirms Oscar-winner Kathy Bates returning to American Horror Story
          

          'Devastated' Dec puts on a brave face after Ant's drink-drive arrest as it is revealed double act vowed one would NEVER appear on TV without the other 
          

          PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: Played a drinking Game (Of Thrones)? Worse for wear Kit Harington stumbles in front of oncoming traffic on rainy Paris streets
          

          It's Jenna COLD-man! Actress wraps up warm in a statement grey coat and bulky scarf as she braves the chill for night out in London
          

          Coronation Street: Complaints tally increases to 200 as David Platt's rape story-line continues to cause controversy among soap fans
          

          Alessandra Ambrosio is rock star chic in vintage Def Leppard shirt and pink stripe denim as she steps out days after 'split from fiance' Jamie Mazur
          

          'It woke me up creatively': Keri Russell reveals her role on The Americans changed her career as she 'wasn't playing a kid anymore'
          

          Belt it out! Kelly Clarkson looks breathtaking in a chic black floor-length gown for I Don't Think About You music video
          

          Golden girls: Greta Gerwig and Tilda Swinton stun in gleaming outfits at New York screening of their film Isle Of Dogs
          

          Bundled up! Rose McGowan sports cream coat and black turban in New York... after sharing cryptic birthday message to Harvey Weinstein
          

          EXCLUSIVE 'I've never needed to read': Marnie Simpson on refusing to address her literacy struggles and ex Lewis Bloor's 'aggression'
          

          Spot the resemblance! Nicky Hilton shows off her slender legs in skintight jeans as she steps out in Beverly Hills with her mother Kathy
          

          What's My Line star and actress Katie Boyle, the face of 1960s Camay soap adverts, dies aged 91 
          

          EXCLUSIVE 'I never fit the beauty stereotype': Human Ken Doll Rodrigo Alves was 'nervous' to return to  Brazil after being bullied for his looks as a child
          

          She's ripped! Sofia Vergara runs errands in very distressed jeans and towering black heels as she puts on a stylish display in Los Angeles 
          

          'You're It!' Jeremy Renner can't be caught  in upcoming comedy TAG... as cast debuts first trailer on The Ellen Show
          

          You can take the girl out of the country... Bikini-clad Megan McKenna poses in a cowgirl hat as her holiday romance with 'Muggy Mike' heats up
          

          HOLLYOAKS: Cindy passionately KISSES her daughter's boyfriend Damon after his proposal to Holly goes awry
          

          Father and son bonding! Kanye West rocks new pink hair as he is spotted during rare outing with dad Ray for sushi lunch date in Malibu
          

          Showing him what he's missing? Rebecca Gayheart, 46, flaunts bikini body on Mexican vacation... a month after filing for divorce from  Eric Dane
          

          Gimme more! Kevin Federline REJECTS child support proposal from ex-wife Britney Spears... after saying $20K a month is just not enough
          

          The bloom is off the wall! A-list florist to the Kardashians says extravagant flower walls like the one used at Kim's wedding are 'OVER'
          

          Even supermodels have cheat days! Elle 'The Body' Macpherson, 53, goes braless and barefoot as she grabs pizza with son Cy, 15, during Sydney vacation
          

          Lindsey Vonn dons black floral to ring bell at the New York Stock Exchange... after cheering on ex Tiger Woods
          

          Claudia Winkleman sticks to her signature style in a chic black coat and heavy eyeliner for Royal Television Society Programme Awards
          

          Alright, Still! Lily Allen looks relaxed in baggy leopard print trousers and Kanye West trainers as she saunters into Manchester club for first tour gig in three years
          

          Red alert! Ashanti accentuates her shapely legs in tight jeans as she takes a break from the recording studio to grab a coffee
          

          If you like pina colada! Gigi Hadid gives a clever nod to the famous dating song from the Seventies... one week after split from Zayn Malik
          

          John Boyega looks undeniably trendy in a khaki jumper and matching coat as he heads to BUILD series in New York City
          

          Getting handsy! Blac Chyna, 29, dons clinging dress as beau YBN Almighty Jay, 18, can't help but grab her behind on shopping trip
          

          'So excited!': Britney Spears models bra top and undies as she announces she's the new face of luxury brand Kenzo
          

          Robbie Williams debuts striking platinum blond hair and quirky jacket as he steps out in LA... after Take That bandmates announce Greatest Hits world tour
          

          Dedicated Ferne McCann wraps up in activewear as she embarks on last minute practise for upcoming Sport Relief 2018 Boat Race
          

          Good Charlotte's Joel Madden sports camouflage look and dark shades as he jets into Sydney with makeup-free wife Nicole Richie and their kids
          

          Sartorially savvy Tallia Storm continues to work her magic on the showbiz circuit in plunging bright floral jumpsuit for screening
          

          Jimmy Kimmel jokes about why men do not get a colonoscopy as Katie Couric takes him for his first screening - 20 years after losing her husband to cancer
          

          TOWIE newcomer Clelia Theodouru looks stylish in a biker jacket as she joins hunky new beau Dan Edgar for filming
          

          Trouble in paradise? Bella Thorne looks stony-faced as she walks through JFK airport with boyfriend Mod Sun
          

          Tease the season! Bundled up LeAnn Rimes playfully sticks tongue out while seen for the first time on Vancouver set of her Christmas film
          

          'I miss you so much already': DWTS pro Cheryl Burke breaks social media hiatus as she mourns the death of her father with heartbreaking tribute
          

          'That's SUCH a Miranda thing to do': Twitter is flooded with Sex and the City-themed posts reacting to Cynthia Nixon's bid for New York Governor
          

          Amy Adams embraces a casual look as she picks up green juice and bottled water wearing a pretty patterned maxi dress in LA
          

          Hat's off to her! Rebel Wilson sports stylish pastel fedora while heading for a pamper session in Santa Monica
          

          Vanderpump Rules' star Lala Kent says Jennifer Lawrence is the 'type of chick' who'd have sex with Harvey Weinstein as feud gets even uglier
          

          Thriller outfit! Paris Jackson pays homage to dad Michael in wolf Letterman jacket as she dines at sushi restaurant in West Hollywood
          

          'It's so much fun!' Blake Shelton reveals that he 'missed out' on having kids but adores spending time with his partner Gwen Stefani's three sons
          

          Busy Philipps diagnosed with sun-burned EYES after 10.5-hour photo shoot for magazine cover that left her uncontrollably weeping in pain
          

          Kelis and Nas settle on custody agreement over eight-year-old son Knight... as she pushes for increase in $8K per month child support
          

          'When women support each other great things happen!' Eiza Gonzalez makes a statement flaunting her flat abs in an empowering graphic tee
          

          Cool mom! Angelina Jolie, 42, treats Vivienne and Zahara to frozen desserts... after revealing her six kids 'don't really do a lot of social media'
          

          Kendall Jenner cuts a chic figure as she steps out in Paris clutching a huge bouquet of red roses... after confirming romance with basketball star Blake Griffin
          

          'I think you're awesome and next year I'd like an invite': Millie Bobby Brown to boy who threw a Stranger Things birthday party that NONE of his classmates attended
          

          Sex and the City star Cynthia Nixon jumps into race against New York Governor Andrew Cuomo with 'true colors' attack - setting up a primary clash
          

          Happiest date on Earth! Frances Bean Cobain and boyfriend Matthew Cook pack on the PDA during a fun-filled trip to Disneyland
          

          Heather Locklear extends stay in rehab... after being charged with five misdemeanors stemming from February domestic abuse arrest
          

          Fetty Wap, 26, welcomes his SEVENTH child... two months after birth of premature baby girl Alaiya
          

          Toxicology report reveals Glee star Mark Salling, who was found guilty of possessing  child porn images, had alcohol in his system when he hanged himself
          

          Ashley Cole makes £2.5m profit on Surrey mansion he once shared with ex-wife Cheryl, which boasts luxury cinema and even a football pitch
          

          PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: A very different type of 'juice' diet: Worse-for-wear Lauren Goodger is propped up on rare boozy night out as she ditches detox
          

          'I let them win that battle!' Eva Mendes lets her two children make their own fashion choices as she releases new collection with New York & Company
          

          Who needs a hammer? Thor star Chris Hemsworth flies in a seaplane during boys' trip to Canada
          

          'We are responsible': The Crown producers apologise to Claire Foy and Matt Smith for wage gap... as they insist the actor should not be blamed for salary
          

          EXCLUSIVE: Robin Williams groped Mork & Mindy co-star's breasts and buttocks and exposed himself - but she says: 'It was the Seventies after all!'
          

          Alex Gerrard displays her athletic figure in a tiny two-piece 11 months after giving birth as she hits Dubai beach with super-toned BFF Sheree Murphy
          

          Blue jean baby! Olivia Culpo shows off her flawless figure in high waisted jeans and stylish white boots
          

          Christine McGuinness celebrates her 30th birthday WITHOUT husband Paddy... as she jets out of Manchester after getting marriage 'back on track'
          

          'I hit a massive low': Holby City's Chizzy Akudolu underwent therapy after battling depression following 'embarrassing' stint on Strictly
          

          This is not all white! Amber Turner and love rival Clelia Theodouru 'mortified' after wearing the SAME jumpsuit to TOWIE launch party
          

          Furious Kerry Katona labels Natasha Hamilton 'jealous and 'b**chy'... after former Atomic Kitten bandmate denies kicking her out of the band
          

          Olivia Attwood looks furious after Love Island co-star Amber Davies is voted fitter by landslide 83%... as Chris Hughes is forced to pick one on Your Face or Mine
          

          Hard Day's Knight: Ringo Starr FINALLY receives his Knighthood 21 years after Sir Paul McCartney... and jokes he'll be wearing his medal at breakfast
          

          Piers Morgan admits he no longer 'recognises' Ant after drink-driving arrest... as he reveals star's estranged wife is having 'a very tough time'
          

          ALISON BOSHOFF: Could the boozy lifestyle that Ant refuses to give up destroy his £120m double act with best man Dec?
          

          Lost without her signature sunglasses! Anna Wintour is pictured looking VERY perplexed as she ditches her shades during an outing in NYC
          

          'We didn't talk about money': Ready Player One co-stars Olivia Cooke and Tye Sheridan 'refused to discuss salaries' while shooting new film
          

          EXCLUSIVE: 'DUIs... let's not pretend I didn't get one!' Lindsay Lohan pokes fun at her past bad behavior as she's unveiled as the face of Lawyer.com
          

          Kimberley Walsh discusses overcoming fear of breastfeeding in public due to her fame... as she confesses 'swimwear fills me with dread' after kids
          

          Margot Robbie and Elizabeth Debicki finally address THAT controversy over Peter Rabbit film in Sydney
          

          Shop til you drop! Kim and Kourtney Kardashian stock up on their favorites while filming KUWTK at the grocery store in Calabasas
          

          A new 'brighter' look! Kim Kardashian appears paler than usual as she shares makeup tutorial before dropping 16 KKW Beauty concealers
          

          Outrage as feminist Germaine Greer suggests #MeToo victims are 'career rapees' for taking six-figure non-disclosure deals from Weinstein 
          

          It was blooming lovely! Shanina Shaik gushes about her lavish bridal shower complete with flower wall... as she prepares to marry fiancé DJ Ruckus
          

          Claire Sweeney leaves ballet gala alongside dashing mystery male companion... after insisting she's 'not bothered finding a man'
          

          All The Lovers! Kylie Minogue catches the eye in a cupid-print jumpsuit as she steps out in Paris... after revealing plans for her 50th birthday bash
          

          Mother-daughter date! Pregnant Candice Swanepoel heads to NYC salon with her mom Eileen in the same black dress she wore last week
          

          Jeremy Meeks checks out pricey engagement rings in Beverly Hills amid rumors girlfriend Chloe Green wants a family 'right away'
          

          Megan MUGKenna! Make-up free star grimaces while leaving her home moments after beau Mike... as she is laden with sack of rubbish and her pup
          

          Just the (gin and) tonic! Busty Chloe Sims and Lauren Pope lead the way as co-stars film pub scenes for the new series of The Only Way Is Essex
          

          Taking off! Makeup-free Nicole Richie and Joel Madden walk with  kids through LA airport... after she poses with 12-inch pet lizard Speedy
          

          Coronation Street SPOILER: Gary Windass is arrested as murderer Pat Phelan's bodies are FINALLY uncovered
          

          Up in the air! Justin Bieber juggles the keys to his G-wagon as he leaves the gym... after getting beloved Mercedes wrapped AGAIN
          

          Bookmakers SUSPEND bets on Meghan's wedding dress designer amid reports she's chosen a gown from Brit label Ralph & Russo
          

          Revealed: Prince Harry and Meghan Markle set to visit the Greek party island of Zakynthos on a private yacht before their wedding in May, says hotel boss
          

          That's one way to turn heads! Queen Maxima of the Netherlands dons a VERY bright yellow gown as she hosts Queen Rania of Jordan at a dinner in The Hague
          

          Queen Margrethe accepts flowers  as she visits a museum with Princess Mary - after thousands lined the streets for funeral of husband Prince Henrik
          

          Viscountess Weymouth throws a VERY extravagant birthday bash at Longleat attended by Kitty Spencer
          

          Patrick Stewart, 77, backs campaign for boy, 6, to be given medical cannabis to treat his epilepsy - as he reveals he uses the treatment to help his arthritis
          

          Crumbs! Harry and Meghan choose a baker from the bride's native California to make their VERY non-traditional wedding cake
          

          'Physical perfection is a myth!' Newly-single Selena Gomez posts a beautiful message of empowerment as she poses in a bikini on yacht day with pals
          

          'He's not ashamed': Jeremy McConnell 'will completely strip off for Channel 4 celebrity special of Naked Attraction'
          

          Tallulah Willis flaunts her washboard abs in a sizzling bikini snap as she enjoys exotic girls' getaway to Turks & Caicos with sister Scout
          

          'I'm sure it was a mistake!' Lorraine Kelly leaves viewers baffled as she calls dark Coronation Street male rape storyline 'brilliant' in live TV gaffe
          

          TOWIE's Yazmin Oukhellou displays her ample cleavage in an array of skimpy lingerie as she poses alongside beau James Lock for underwear campaign
          

          Spielberg confirms the next Indiana Jones movie will start filming in the UK in April 2019 with Harrison Ford reprising his iconic role at the age of 75
          

          Heavily-pregnant Casey Batchelor displays her huge bump in blush bikini in Tenerife... as she hits out at cruel body-shamers
          

          EastEnders SPOILER: Kat Slater turns up to her own WAKE in first look at Jessie Wallace's return to Albert Square
          

          'All they want to do is get on stage': Drew Barrymore says BOTH daughters want to act... but they must wait until 18 so they can have 'normal childhood'
          

          Leslie Mann is encouraging daughters to work behind the camera... and reveals oldest child Maude was edited OUT of The 40-Year Old Virgin
          

          Alexandra Burke looks leggy in a white mini-skirt and patent boots as she reveals her mother's death helped inspire new album
          

          Coronation Street SPOILER: Audrey Roberts is left for DEAD after being attacked by brutal muggers... but has Richard Hillman's curse struck again?
          

          Solemn Princess Anne pays her respects to the Warrington bombing victims 25 years on from the IRA attack that killed two children
          

          Survival of the Fittest beauty Mettisse Campbell sizzles in sexy crochet bikini as she packs on the PDA with beau Tristan Jones in Spain
          

          Gone with the fringe! Queen Letizia of Spain looks elegant in a tasseled tweed jacket as she attends a meeting for social inclusion in the workplace
          

          'I told you we would come for you': Rose McGowan films haunting birthday message for Harvey Weinstein on behalf of all his victims
          

          Danielle Lloyd is the picture of confidence in a revealing high-leg swimsuit... after detailing abuse about her 'odd shaped and botched up' body
          

          Vanessa Paradis keeps her ring finger firmly hidden during shop with beau Samuel Benchetrit in LA... amid mounting engagement speculation
          

          Pregnant Vogue Williams reveals sickness struggles... as fiancé Spencer Matthews admits she nearly CANCELLED the night of his proposal
          

          Orange you a sight for sore eyes! The Queen turns heads in a bold coat dress and matching hat as she tours the Royal Academy of Arts 
          

          Newlywed Emily Ratajkowski flaunts her long legs in a flirty green polka dot mini-dress as she runs errands in LA
          

          'There will be blood!' Fiona Bruce falls victim to an office micro-crime after her mango is 'STOLEN' from a BBC fridge - and it sparks an internal inquiry
          

          Golden girl! Beyonce dazzles in metallic dress as she shares snaps of her family at star-studded Wearable Art Gala
          

          Riverdale's Madelaine Petsch details early morning beauty hacks she uses to boost her tired and puffy skin before a long day of filming
          

          Bikini-clad Rita Ora appears near-naked as she shows off her smouldering physique in nude bikini while reclining on a rock 
          

          'I steal his clothes': Billy Ray Cyrus confesses to stealing from Liam Hemsworth... as he gives his seal of approval his daughter Miley's fiancé
          

          'We're too young!': Brooke Vincent and footballer beau Kean Bryan dismiss engagement rumours as they discuss whirlwind romance
          

          'This is what knifemen did to my nephew': Liz Hurley tweets shocking image of near-fatal knife-wound in her 21-year-old model nephew's back 
          

          'It's been a struggle dealing with my scars': Megan McKenna and Michelle Heaton prepare to strip naked as they lead The Real Full Monty's line-up
          

          Amelia Gray Hamlin, 16, showcases her off-duty style in an edgy crop top as she steps out with RHOBH star mother Lisa Rinna
          

          Children with Down's Syndrome cause 'beautiful chaos' in the This Morning studio after their emotional 'Carpool Karaoke' video went viral
          

          Ed Sheeran accused of showing 'disregard to local ecology' as plans to build wedding chapel at his Sussex home are jeopardised by a rare breed of newts'
          

          Pregnant Khloe Kardashian is mistaken for her selfie-addict sister Kylie Jenner as she puffs out her pout for heavily filtered make-up snap
          

          Smouldering Riley Keough bares all in VERY steamy sex scene with on-screen ex Caleb Landry Jones in new thriller Welcome The Stranger
          

          All you need is love! Mila Kunis catches the eye in positive slogan T-shirt as she runs errands during solo appearance in Los Angeles
          

          Mel Gibson, 62, goes low-key in tight black tee as stunning girlfriend Rosalind Ross, 27, displays her lithe legs in gym gear for LA lunch
          

          Baby love! Doting mum Serena Williams posts adorable photo with her smiling daughter Alexis Olympia
          

          Reese Witherspoon and Laura Dern resume their roles as frenemies Madeline and Renata as Big Little Lies season two filming gets underway
          

          Silver-haired Bella Thorne gazes adoringly at Patrick Schwarzenegger at screening... before changing into abs-flashing bralet
          

          Brandy Norwood 'MISSES brother Ray J and his pregnant wife Princess Love's baby shower after becoming embroiled in a bitter family spat'
          

          EXCLUSIVE: Ant McPartlin 'could have wiped out my family' in 'drink-drive' smash, says father of injured girl - as TV star returns to rehab 
          

          'Don't want to make this an us vs. them thing': Margot Robbie insists men and women need to 'stand together' for equality as she reflects on #MeToo
          

          Pregnant Chrissy Teigen showcases her baby bump in a pajama-inspired dress as she heads to dinner at Craig's in West Hollywood
          

          Vision in white! Chloe Sims flaunts the results of her bum-reshaping surgery as she joins her glamorous co-stars at TOWIE series launch
          

          Cristiano Ronaldo's girlfriend Georgina Rodriguez shows off her post-baby figure at awards ceremony... four months after welcoming daughter
          

          'This little boy is on my nerves today!' Pregnant Jordin Sparks shows off her growing bump... before complaining about shooting pains
          

          Neymar's girlfriend Bruna Marquezine flaunts her enviable model figure in thigh-grazing dress as they celebrate her sister's birthday in Brazil
          

          Heidi Klum flaunts her chiseled midriff and taut legs in black lingerie and matching kinky boots for Instagram
          

          Legs eleven! Supermodel Elle Macpherson flaunts her statuesque figure in skintight activewear as she continues her trip in Sydney
          

          Real Housewives of Cheshire star Tanya Bardsley and husband Phil put their sprawling £2m Cheshire mansion up for sale... (complete with bar, gym and cinema room)
          

          'Gross!', 'slimeball!', 'a***hole !' Habbs, Melissa, and Melody destroy MIC's sexist dinosaurs Harry Baron, Jamie Laing, and Alik Alfus, by JIM SHELLEY
          

          'Got smashed in the back of the head': Chris Hemsworth plunges into ocean after he's sent flying off his surfboard by HUGE wave in surfing accident
          

          Now you can send a Meghan! Royal bride-to-be and the Duchess of Cambridge are turned into emojis (but William and Harry are nowhere to be seen)
          

          Alicia Vikander reveals how she gained '12lbs of muscle' while training for Tomb Raider... and shares her 'cheat day' treat
          

          Leggy Jourdan Dunn shows off her svelte figure in striped  dress with tassel detailing as she attends Swarovski bash in style
          

          How stars are flouting advertising rules on social media: Celebs including Rosie Huntington-Whiteley and Binky Felstead fail to declare posts
          

          Made In Chelsea: Harry's relationship with Melissa is already on thin ice and Jamie is left devastated when Melody announces she's sticking around in London 
          

          Not on her Best Behaviour! Louisa Johnson STRIPS  to her bra and knickers and dances on a TABLE at jaw-dropping meeting with record execs
          

          'Here I am pictured trying to be your son': Rumer Willis shares sweet and humorous birthday tribute to action hero dad Bruce on his 63rd
          

          BBC's Victoria Derbyshire: I walk around naked in front of my two sons... and they 'don't bat an eyelid' 
          

          'I was chubbier and had to grow into my face': Bella Hadid claims she was riddled with insecurities as a teenager 
          

          Love in the Big Apple! Halsey holds hands with beau G-Eazy as they leave the Blossom Ball in New York City
          

          Branching into musicals? Actress Cressida Bonas leaves Jermyn Street Theatre with a guitar slung over her shoulder after another performance
          

          'From the moment we met we were best friends': Pregnant Vogue Williams says she knew Spencer Matthews was 'The One'
          

          Two peas in a pod! Sofia Richie and Lottie Moss bare their bellies in matching crop tops while shopping in LA
          

          Get a room! Armie Hammer can't keep his hands off  wife Elizabeth Chambers at LA screening for new film Final Portrait
          

          'We are the greatest TOWIE love story': Arg Argent gushes over Gemma Collins as he compares himself to KEN BARLOW for his longevity on the show
          

          'Rumor has it you might be using my song!' Taylor Swift surprises newlyweds with champagne and sweet note on their wedding day
          

          Traveling in style! Charlize Theron rocks fedora and shades with skintight jeans as she emerges from LAX after trip to Dubai
          

          Taking turns! Jennifer Garner and ex Ben Affleck pick up daughter Seraphina from school... after his huge back tattoo was revealed
          

          Tchau! Katy Perry saunters through the Rio airport in a fedora as she makes her way to Lima for final South America concert
          

          Vanderpump Rules: Jax Taylor argues again with girlfriend Brittany Cartwright during Mexico birthday trip
          

          Wakanda forever! Kevin Hart and ex-wife Torrei go all out to celebrate daughter Heaven's 13th birthday with Black Panther-themed bash
          

          Suited up! Darren Criss, Edgar Ramirez and Ricky Martin put on dapper show at LA event celebrating The Assassination of Gianni Versace
          

          EXCLUSIVE: Ant McPartlin emerges from the wreck of his £26,000 Mini - SECONDS after crashing' as Saturday Night Takeaway is cancelled so he can 'check back into rehab'
          

          Kaia Gerber, 16, looks every inch a supermodel as she showcases her long legs in skinny black jeans and boots in Malibu
          

          Tommy Lee nurses his busted lip while out in LA with fiancee Brittany Furlan amid fallout with son Brandon after domestic dispute
          

          Make-up free Kristen Stewart wears her favorite white crop top as she heads to a spa in LA
          

          TOWIE's Yazmin Oukhellou stuns in a beige bodycon dress as she puckers up to boyfriend James Lock at new series launch
          

          The Voice: Kelly Clarkson urges Blake Shelton to 'read a book' after he admits not knowing about Nefertiti
          

          Entourage actress Perrey Reeves, 47, and her husband Aaron Endress-Fox reveal they welcomed baby girl last fall
          

          Emmy Rossum shows off flawless complexion as she goes make-up free in striped dress for a day in Beverly Hills
          

          Pop stars, $130 million a year and 40,000 worshippers: Inside the rise  of Selena Gomez and Justin Bieber's Hillsong megachurch in Australia
          

          'On a journey to greatness!': DJ Khaled serves up hot beats and healthy treats as he pit stops in Toronto for first leg of Kitchen Tour with Weight Watchers
          

          Make-up free Cindy Crawford shows off her slim legs in tight jeans as she steps out in sunny Malibu
          

          A Star Is Born! Renee Zellweger is the double of screen legend Judy Garland in a raven wig as first official pictures of the forthcoming biopic are released
          

          American Idol: Luke Bryan cradles six-month-old baby while singer Marcio Donaldson auditions on ABC show
          

          'Save our Corrie': Fern Britton blasts male rape storyline as she claims it's 'unsuitable pre watershed'... and begs soap bosses to bring back the 'fun'
          

          'I really hope he finds peace': Kerry Katona tweets support for Ant McPartlin and takes a swipe at This Morning for  ignoring his drink driving arrest
          

          Only the best! Ruby Rose bundles up in $1K men's Balenciaga windbreaker as she carries shopping bag from skincare clinic in Los Angeles
          

          Back to work! Gigi Hadid strikes a pose on  brownstone balcony during photo shoot in NYC after Zayn Malik split
          

          Penny for your thoughts? New Bachelorette Becca Kufrin looks pensive while her suitors get hyped up in neon gym gear before date
          

          'Please stop shaming the buttless!' Pregnant Chrissy Teigen reveals 40lb weight gain as she cheekily claims 'not one ounce went' to her derriere
          

          High-flying style! Hugh Jackman cuts a cool silhouette in a leather jacket and reflective aviator sunglasses as he touches down in New York
          

          Workout style! Jessica Alba emerges in maxi grey zippered sweatshirt from Los Angeles gym
          

          Counting On: Joy-Anna Duggar gives birth to 'huge' baby Gideon after emergency C-section delivery
          

          Laura Whitmore stuns in an elegant taupe jumpsuit as she joins glamorous Claire Sweeney at star-studded ballet gala
          

          The lady doth protest too much? Delta Goodrem once again brushes off rumours she's dating Seal and says the allegations are 'entertaining to watch'
          

          'Double standards?': ITV viewers take to Twitter to accuse This Morning of deliberately ignoring Ant McPartlin's drink driving arrest
          

          'You are strong': Drew Barrymore is hipster chic as she rocks Dirty Dancing tee under royal blue pinstripe suit with inspiring motto on handbag
          

          Bikini-clad Selena Gomez playfully MOUNTS her female pal on a boat... as she reveals leg scar from complications during her kidney transplant
          

          Tamara Ecclestone steps out in plunging monochrome dress... after hitting back at trolls who accused her of 'spoiling' daughter Sophia on 4th birthday
          

          Her own best advert! Eva Mendes catches  eye in pajama-esque polka dot outfit from her New York And Company line while out in  Big Apple
          

          Margot Robbie cuts a casually chic figure and shields her gaze behind sunglasses as she leaves Perth following whirlwind press tour for Peter Rabbit 
          

          Bride-to-be Princess Eugenie and her fiancé Jack Brooksbank look the picture of happiness as they attend charity concert at London's Royal Albert Hall
          

          Monday morning errands! Amy Adams and husband Darren Le Gallo kick off the week by hitting a supermarket for groceries
          

          Digging it! Serena Williams dons LBD as she participates in the breaking ground ceremony for new Miami Open site at Hard Rock Stadium
          

          Newly-single Gigi Hadid goes casual cool in brown bomber jacket on New York stroll... as sister Bella does kissy faces with their dad Mohamed
          

          'It was time for Vincent to depart Walford': Richard Blackwood confirms he is LEAVING EastEnders after three years on the BBC soap
          

          'When you realise the back tattoo is real...': Jennifer Garner meme revived as fans savage Ben Affleck's midlife crisis tattoo on social media 
          

          Love Island beauty Chyna Ellis rocks a casual look in high-waisted trousers as she cosies up to former co-star Theo Campbell at star-studded comedy awards
          

          So that's Kylie's secret! Jenner reveals svelte post-baby figure is thanks to waist training... as she copies Kardashian big sisters
          

          Former Miss GB Shelby Tribble takes the plunge in hot pink blazer as she cosies up to new boyfriend Pete Wicks at TOWIE series launch
          

          The Mummy Diaries star Billie Faiers shows off her incredible curves and tiny waist in a patterned bikini in sizzling throwback holiday snap
          

          'Say no more, I got you': Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson buys his ailing father a new Cadillac Escalade
          

          'She loves Australia!' Billy Ray Cyrus addresses rumours pop star daughter Miley could appear on stage as part of his current Australian tour 
          

          SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE: Has Mick Jagger left the date open for Prince Harry's big day?
          

          Sean 'Diddy' Combs reveals he was so addicted to his PHONE it made him depressed but a retreat to the Arizona desert helped him overcome his demons
          

          SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE: Kate Moss uses trip to Peru for wedding of Prince Christian of Hanover to show support for Mario Testino
          

          Lost Without Him? Delta Goodrem confirms her split with rocker Matthew Copley... just two months after they were caught kissing in Hawaii
          

          'This is baby David': Victoria Beckham coos over newborn with the same name as her husband on Sports Relief trip to Kenya (while wearing a £90 T-shirt and £120 wellies)
          

          Stranger Things kids will 'earn $250,000 per episode for season 3... but Millie Bobby Brown set to get even MORE in secret separate deal'
          

          Makeup-free Iggy Azalea hides under a hoodie after revealing she set fire to her cheating ex-fiancé Nick Young's designer clothes
          

          Bella Thorne sports wild glitter hairdo and Bambi inspired jeans for Midnight Sun press day in Miami with Patrick Schwarzenegger
          

          Gogglebox and CBB star George Gilbey 'is charged with attacking his girlfriend and going on a wrecking spree in their home'
          

          The ultimate bachelor pad! Zayn Malik snaps up a stunning $10.7m New York penthouse with incredible private terrace... one week after shock split from Gigi Hadid
          

          Olivia Buckland flaunts her toned curves in an eye-wateringly brave bikini as she enjoys another day in Barbados with Love Island beau Alex Bowen
          

          Jess Wright struggles to contain her ample assets in a skimpy black crop top as she parades her toned abs in a sizzling mirror selfie
          

          Rising star Olivia Cooke sparkles in sequinned gown as she joins a vibrant Hannah John-Kamen at the star-studded Ready Player One premiere in London
          

          'Dancing is the glue that keeps us together': Kevin and Karen Clifton insist they are stronger than ever after marriage split... as they still wear their wedding rings 
          

          'I worked my a**e off!': Lorraine Kelly takes a swipe at Scarlett Moffatt and Lauren Goodger over 'misleading' fitness DVDs... as she defends her 'unfiltered' workouts
          

          Professor Trump! Ivanka dons safety goggles and a white coat to try her hand at some science experiments during a visit to Iowa learning centre and robotics lab
          

          Corrie fans blast show boss Kate Oates 'arrogant' appearance on This Morning... after the soap's male rape storyline receives 122 Ofcom complaints
          

          Gary Barlow, 47, shows off his blonde locks as he joins Take That bandmates Howard Donald and Mark Owen to make announcement on The One Show
          

          'That was 14 years ago!' 50 Cent posts Instagram rant after longtime ex Vivica Fox publishes details about their sex life in her new self-help book
          

          Rob Kardashian losing weight due to his 'more active' lifestyle... but insider claims he still 'needs to get his eating in check'
          

          Future of  Saturday Night Takeaway is in doubt as ITV bosses cancel this week's show so Ant McPartlin can check back into rehab
          

          How Ant's 'drink-drive crash' unfolded: Graphic reveals trail of destruction in three-car pile-up that led to TV star's arrest
          

          Life's a beach! Former Made In Chelsea star Jess Woodley flaunts her toned figure in a sporty bikini as she enjoys sun-soaked holiday in Dubai
          

          Perky Lauren Goodger defiantly displays her toned figure at the gym... after being accused of 'starving herself in fitness DVD sham'
          

          Tallia Storm flaunts her incredible figure and toned abs in a white floral bodice and matching ruffled skirt as she hits the red carpet at Ready Player One premiere
          

          Making waves! Lea Michele flaunts pert derriere in clinging one-piece swimsuit on the beach while enjoying Hawaiian vacation with mum
          

          Jeremy Clarkson's smiling son Finlo, 21, continues to wear spinal and neck brace with a crutch as he joins motoring star's ex-wife Frances Cain on the beach in Barbados
          

          Kylie Minogue cuts a casual figure in fluffy coat and flared jeans as she steps out in Paris... after discussing her 'nervous breakdown' over failed engagement
          

          Bundled up! Victoria's Secret Angel Elsa Hosk covers up her famous figure with massive shearling coat on coffee run in New York
          

          'I'm wherever you need me!' Millie Bobby Brown and boyfriend Jacob Sartorius sing sweet duet of his song Nothin' With You on Instagram
          

          New York chic! Hilary Swank is stylish in black coat over patterned mini dress as she heads to GMA interview
          

          Ewan McGregor cruises in his Rolls-Royce as he takes daughter Anouk, 7, to party... amid claims he has 'split' from Mary Elizabeth Winstead
          

          Tamara Ecclestone hits back at 'envious, jealous and insecure' trolls... after facing criticism for 'spoiling' daughter Sophia on her 4th birthday
          

          'We're not f**king happy': Emotional moment Chris Hughes dumps  Olivia Attwood in Crackin' On REVEALED... as exes go to war on Twitter 
          

          Lottie Moss bares all as she poses NAKED while reading a motivational book in a bath during rare night in
          

          'Thought I'd try it!' Glee's Naya Rivera auditions for Stephen Spielberg's West Side Story remake on Instagram
          

          'We've had one hell of a journey!' Fifth Harmony split to 'pursue solo projects' six years after forming on X Factor
          

          Angelina Jolie proudly flaunts tattoo which 'spiritually binds' her with estranged husband Brad Pitt in shoot for perfume  Mon Guerlain
          

          He's (coco)nuts about her! Footballer John Terry posts sizzling snap of bikini-clad wife Toni as she displays her rippling six-pack abs during Dubai break
          

          The Bachelor star Sam Wood cradles his adorable daughter Willow as fiancee Snezana Markoski lovingly looks in a sweet family Instagram snap
          

          The Crown fans launch petition for Matt Smith to give 'sexist pay gap' to Time's Up movement ... after producers reveal he earned more than Claire Foy in the first two seasons
          

          'She can drink me under the table!' Reese Witherspoon admits she can't compete with co-star Oprah as they promote 'positive' new film A Wrinkle In Time
          

          Liam Gallagher apologises to fans before walking off stage after only FOUR songs at Lollapalooza festival because of ongoing chest infection
          

          'H is for harassment?' Charlie Rose returns to social media with bizarre one letter tweet, prompting division between fans who miss him and those who recall why he was fired
          

          'She's amazing': Country singer Kelsea Ballerini reveals she still keeps in touch with pal Taylor Swift ahead of her upcoming Sydney tour performance
          

          Yasmin Le Bon oozes elegance in a knitted lavender jumper and printed peplum skirt as she joins chic Rachel Stevens at charity lunch in London
          

          Fans marvel over Vogue Williams' slender physique as she poses in crop top... days before revealing she is expecting her first child with Spencer Matthews
          

          Ferne McCann displays her taut stomach at body confidence event in Glasgow... as her jailed ex Arthur Collins lands himself in more trouble
          

          Kim Zolciak and Kroy Biermann enjoy romantic evening... after revealing she got death threats when NeNe Leakes called her 'racist'
          

          Trading up from Arie! Becca Kufrin is surrounded by gorgeous guys as she films first scenes for The Bachelorette
          

          Pecs appeal! Justin Bieber shows off bulging biceps in tank top on solo outing in LA while ex Selena enjoys bikini break
          

          'I don't want that intervention': Kelly Brook, 38, on why she won't freeze her eggs as she insists getting married isn't the 'be all and end all'
          

          Weinstein's estranged wife Georgina Chapman is pictured for first time since canceling February fashion show, as she steps out in NYC with a bodyguard 
          

          EXCLUSIVE: Matthew Wright 'is embroiled in bitter showdown over demand for apology' after Anne Hegerty called transgender Paris Lees 'a boy'
          

          X Factor winner Louisa Johnson steps out in a bold sports jacket and acid-wash jeans as she reveals Ed Sheeran has penned a song for her debut album
          

          Introducing Stunt's doubles: James' new blonde bombshell 'fiancee' and her brunette BFF look strangely similar to Ecclestone sisters 
          

          Chris Hughes reveals he's received 'disturbing' death threats and hints ex Olivia Attwood is 'encouraging hate' after their VERY heated rows 
          

          Tallulah Willis flashes serious sideboob and her perky posterior as she larks around in plunging pink swimsuit during exotic getaway to The Bahamas
          

          'Actresses are expected to starve': Dominic West bemoans the VERY different attitudes towards men and women's bodies in Hollywood
          

          Make-up free Bonnie Langford, 53, is turned pink with chill as she jogs on the spot to keep warm during outdoors scenes for EastEnders in London
          

          King of the slopes! Felipe takes a break from royal duties with a ski trip to northern Spain (but Queen Letizia and their daughters stay home)
          

          Daddy duty! Robin Thicke takes a solo trip to the grocery store in Malibu... weeks after girlfriend April Love Geary gave birth to daughter Mia
          

          He's got pecs appeal! Charlie Hunnam shows off his six-pack for beach scene and takes a selfie with scantily clad fan as he preps Triple Frontier
          

          Relaxing with crew after Saturday's show and a Sunday afternoon dog walk with his mother: How Ant spent 24 hours before his crash
          

          Ant's annus horribilis: Star's past year has seen his personal life in freefall with a rehab stint, marriage breakdown and now arrest 
          

          Ant's mother breaks cover: Star's 'rock' who has been his support and confidante over the past year is seen leaving his house after his drink drive arrest 
          

          Harper Beckham, six, enjoys a fun day in the snow with brother Cruz , 13, as they go sledging... after dad David returns from South Africa
          

          EXCLUSIVE - Tom Tom to the rescue! Vanderpump Rules stars weigh in on  J-Law's feud with co-star Lala Kent as they talk marriage, babies and what it's REALLY like to work with Lisa and Ken
          

          'Human Ken Doll' Rodrigo Alves wears a dramatic fur coat as he makes snow angels in Moscow after revealing he wants to become a dad
          

          Celebs Go Dating's Lady Nadia Essex shows off her curves in two sizzling swimwear styles as she soaks up the sun during idyllic Barbados break
          

          Did The Simpsons predict the future? Fans spot Stephen Hawking's nod to Einstein in tribute episode... 19 years before he died on the physicist's birthday
          

          'Jennifer and I used to call each other c****: Dawn French reveals her love of swearing - and how she once asked Prince Charles 'Did you like my beaver?'
          

          Bikini babe Olivia Buckland flaunts her enviable curves in a sizzling sequin two-piece with beau Alex Bowen in Barbados
          

          Back to work! Tulisa sports casual combat trousers and an off-shoulder top as she leaves Universal Music offices ahead of her big comeback
          

          Piers Morgan fuels Strictly Come Dancing rumours as he tangos with pro Anton du Beke on GMB... after the host hinted he would appear on the show
          

          Margot Robbie sets her sights on a $1.3 million Bryon Bay beach house as she 'wants to start planning for a family with husband Tom Ackerley'
          

          You want ANOTHER Piece Of Me? Britney's ex-husband Kevin Federline 'begs for $20k-a-MONTH in child support'... after seeing her Vegas success
          

          Real Housewives Of Atlanta: Kim Zolciak reveals she got death threats after NeNe Leakes called her 'racist'
          

          Harry and Meghan are fans, too! Royal expert claims couple binge-watched The Crown while the actress was settling into her new life in the UK
          

          Russell Crowe unveils  Master and Commander violin worth $140,000 as the first items go up for sale in his $3.6million divorce auction
          

          LeAnn Rimes wraps up in a fluffy hooded jumper as she and husband Eddie Cibrian hold hands while walking their pet pooch in Vancouver
          

          'Who's that guy?': Phillip Schofield sends fans WILD with throwback Instagram of his darker locks
          

          'This is called being spoilt!': Tamara Ecclestone criticised over daughter's lavish 4th birthday party as Sophia gets a mountain of gifts and GIANT cake
          

          She fits right in! Sofia Richie, 19, joins boyfriend Scott Disick, 34, for an outing with his children Mason, eight, and Penelope, five
          

          Emotional Wendy Williams breaks down in tears as she returns to work looking refreshed after life-threatening battle with Graves' disease
          

          Angelina Jolie showcases her off-duty style in a chic wrap coat and stiletto boots as she takes her children to watch the new Tomb Raider reboot
          

          Paris Jackson channels 70s chic in a distressed acid denim jacket and round frames as she carries a bouquet of roses in Malibu
          

          Stephen Belafonte enjoys a Nobu lunch date with daughter Madison... amid ongoing bitter court battle with ex Mel B
          

          Make-up free Lily Rose Depp keeps it casual in a cardigan and jeans teamed with a Chanel handbag as she grabs lunch in LA 
          

          'I'm such a dork!' Academy Award-nominated actress Margot Robbie reveals that she has worn two dental retainers since she was 14 years old
          

          How's this for an Extraordinary Home? BBC property show presenter Caroline Quentin's own house goes on the market for £700,000 
          

          'Will it be cancelled?' Concerned fans wonder whether Saturday Night Takeaway will go ahead next weekend after Ant McPartlin is 'arrested for drink-driving'
          

          That's quite a carrot Charles! Prince of Wales gives the root vegetable a VERY close inspection during a visit to a food supplier in Lincolnshire
          

          A bright fuchsia: Emma Roberts keeps casual in a bold pink jumper and kooky yellow boots as she heads out for a solo lunch date
          

          Pregnant Chrissy Teigen cradles cute daughter Luna as she flaunts her chic style in form-fitting dress and reptile print coat on dinner date
          

          There's snow stopping her! Globe-trotting model Kendall Jenner braves the big freeze in Paris with bare legs... shortly after arriving from sunny LA
          

          Outlander's Caitriona Balfe looks chic in a plunging red dress as she joins co-star Sam Heughan at a fan event in Hollywood
          

          Lisa Armstrong 'hints at loneliness as she likes tweet about having no one to talk to'... as Ant McPartlin is 'arrested on suspicion of drink-driving'
          

          Make-up free Jacqueline Jossa cradles her blossoming baby bump as she poses in satin pyjamas for radiant Instagram snap
          

          A pizza the action! Ariel Winter shows off her toned abs in a cropped jumper and tight leggings as she and Levi Meaden enjoy an Italian dinner date
          

          'It's controversial and not everyone will agree with my decision': Stacey Solomon reveals she is homeschooling her two sons Zachary and Leighton
          

          Move over Britney Spears! Pop punk band Blink-182 follows in the singer's footsteps by announcing a 16-show Las Vegas residency at the Palms Casino Resort
          

          'Barcelona days': TOWIE's Chloe Meadows flaunts her incredible figure in a canary yellow bikini with a cleavage-enhancing cut-out
          

          'She was deemed a spare part': EastEnders bosses 'AXE Michelle Fowler actress Jenna Russell just 14 months after shock return'
          

          'We were shocked by how quickly it happened': Newly-engaged Spencer Matthews and Vogue Williams reveal they are expecting first child
          

          'Would you like anything?': Bella Thorne poses seductively in front of a cold case as she rocks a leather mini skirt and fishnet stockings
          

          Watch What Happens Live: 'I burned it all, darling!': Iggy Azalea talks incinerating ex fiance Nick Young's designer clothes after split
          

          Sisterly love: Beaming bride-to-be Princess Eugenie shares a playful snap with her 'beautiful big sissy' Beatrice after joining Instagram  
          

          'Everything will work out': TOWIE star Amber Turner shares cryptic quote about 'not obsessing'... as ex Dan Edgar moves on with Clelia Theodouru
          

          Tat's a milestone! Zayn Malik adds tattoo of his age, 25, to growing body art collection in wake of shock Gigi Hadid breakup
          

          What a flirt! Emily Ratajkowski teases her ample cleavage while wearing a sexy silk dress in a sizzling Instagram video
          

          Just a bit off The Crown! Actress Claire Foy shows off her trendy new bowl cut while shopping in London 
          

          American Idol: 'I love her as a songwriter': Katy Perry throws shade at Taylor Swift after fan gushes about her bitter rival
          

          Wardrobe malfunction? Ireland Baldwin looks on verge of tears as she flashes bra  in unbuttoned dress outside bar on St Patrick's Day
          

          The Walking Dead: Rick and Negan face off in a basement full of walkers... and a new group reveal themselves
          

          'The absolute love of my life': Minka Kelly pays tribute to her late dog Chewy following her pet's passing
          

          'I was told to show my ribs and suck in my gut': Victoria's Secret model Bridget Malcolm reveals how she was body-shamed on a photoshoot
          

          Sheer beauty! Selena Gomez shines in see-through tank top as she enjoys lunch in LA... one week after 'splitting' from Justin Bieber
          

          Getting frisky in Florida! Sports Illustrated model Samantha Hoopes shows off her bikini body as beau gets cheeky by grabbing her backside
          

          All aboard the love boat! Pregnant Eva Longoria wows in summery low-cut dress as she holds hands with husband Jose Baston during day on yacht
          
Charles and Camilla’s plot to slur Diana as a SCHEMING HYSTERIC and how the Prince’s mistress orchestrated a...
My computer was hacked so Russian warplanes could bomb underground hospital in Syria, claims surgeon who...
Brexit deal might NOT be done: EU chief Tusk says he is not sure all member states will welcome transition...
A drug to slow the spread of dementia could be available in three years and a ‘vaccine’ that prevents the...
Ant and Dec are SNUBBED at the Royal Television Society Programme Awards as they lose in both categories and...
Suicide clinics 'to be made legal in Guernsey': Island's politicians set to approve assisted dying in vote...
'I will live with the guilt for the rest of my life': Heartbroken mother blames her 'stupidity' after...
Man, 21, is fighting for his life after six officers probing an armed robbery fired 13 shots at him during...
Misconduct cases against nurses and midwives ‘to be held in private’ despite fears plans could lead to...
French couple accused of killing their nanny 'burned her body on bonfire while barbecuing chicken and told...
University of Exeter investigates vile racist messages of law students in private WhatsApp group - as legal...
Fury as YouTube Kids channel aimed at children as young as three is found featuring advice on how to build a...
Forget going hungry…now poor children are FATTER than rich kids because of the rise of cheap junk food and...
Stone me! £8 avocado-shaped Easter egg aimed at millennials sells out at Waitrose and has been the most...
Celebrities reveal their dramatic transformations after shedding YEARS off their face, body and brain ages...
The UK's biggest gaming festival is back with Insomnia62. Play games, see YouTubers, and win prizes at this...
It wasn’t one! Queen to attend performance by reggae star Shaggy as part of Commonwealth concert to mark her...
Stress of city life takes its toll…on blackbirds due to noise, pollution and the stress of longer days...
Use tongs to wipe blinds and 'hoover' carpets with a squeegee: The VERY clever cleaning hacks that will help...
Pictured: Red Arrows pilot who SURVIVED after ejecting before fireball crash that killed his RAF engineer...
Social care costs WILL be capped, vows Jeremy Hunt as he admits too many elderly people are being failed by...
BBC 'acted like a rogue boss to dodge £10million tax bill' as presenter says Corporation 'made her work...
Dentist reveals the 8 foods that cause bad breath (and the tactful way of letting someone know they have...
The competitions where top prizes are NEVER given away: Big brands like McCain and Onken use small print to...
JANET STREET-PORTER: Most husbands' mums are a trial but only poor Camilla has had to endure the Royal...
Let us pay! Church of England introduces contactless payment terminals at 16,000 churches so worshippers can...
The 4 gynecology questions girls are too embarrassed to ask about - but could affect women AND men if you...
Fury as BT charges rural familes £5,000 just to connect to the internet because they are too far from...
PICTURED: Convicted armed robber who was behind the wheel of self-driving Uber when it killed pedestrian as...
PICTURED: Maryland high school gunman, 17, killed during 'exchange of fire' with deputy who confronted him...
Teenage brother of Florida shooter Nikolas Cruz is held on $500,000 bail for trespassing at school where...
Cannabis farmer, a crash-for-cash conman and a family suspected of a £1million fraud are among those to get...
We were beginning to trust autonomous cars: Poll says half of Britons were confident about self-driving...
'I wish I’d told him "I love you, we’ll find some help, it will be okay"': Emotional Zoe Ball recalls the...
Police officer fills out form wrongly and accidentally prosecutes HIMSELF for driving an untaxed vehicle 
Heartbreak for parents battling to keep 22-month-old Alfie Evans alive as Supreme Court justices refuse to...
Motorist who called police officers 'Smurfs' in a Facebook post advising drivers about a speedtrap now faces...
Banks are facing a crackdown on rip-off overdraft fees after being criticised for hitting customers with...
A species' dying moments: Photos show the last male northern white rhino being comforted by a ranger before...
Private firms urged to submit plans for a railway between Heathrow Airport and London Waterloo and the line...
Families of innocent boys aged 12 and three who were killed by IRA in Warrington bombing say their deaths...
Family are told they must move out of their three-bedroom bungalow because planning permission said it...
'Drink-drive' TV star Ant McPartlin is holed up undergoing rehab at his £1.6m rented home - as friends claim...
'He's not the guy I know': Piers Morgan admits he no longer 'recognises' Ant McPartlin after drink-driving...
Russian spies fly home on Air Cocaine: Putin sends controversial VIP plane at the centre of major drug...
Career women must not infantilise their husbands and leave to-do lists when they go away warns high-flying...
And you thought YOUR hangover was bad! People share their hilarious drinking mishaps under #MyDrunkStory 
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: The zipless dress once considered 'risque'... that has proved a hit thanks to the Duchess of Cambridge
TOM UTLEY: At last, a genuine medical condition that explains why I never listen to a word my wife says
Press the panic button... Lucifer's legged it: The Mail's theatre critic is directing his village's Easter play. So why has the Devil disappeared and did the Bible really feature green underpants