Australia's longest-running Aboriginal land claim has cleared its final hurdle, but the details left some accusing the NT Government of "subpar communication".
The land has now been gazetted, and maps show what areas can be accessed and fish, and what areas are off-limits
As part of the settlement, the NT Government and Northern Land Council negotiated a compensation package, allowing public access to beaches and to fish areas of Cox Peninsula without a permit.
The land gazetted this week now shows exactly where the public can continue to fish, and where it cannot.
Off-limits is Quail Island, Djajalbit Islet and the northern beach of Indian Island, because they contain sacred sites.
So is Two Fella Creek and other areas in the northern Cox Peninsula, in order to protect sacred sites. 
The northern Cox Peninsula area is not Aboriginal land, but it will be granted to the Kenbi Land Trust as Kenbi freehold title and become private land.
The Northern Land Council chief executive officer Joe Morrison welcomed the official gazettal, and requested people respect the traditional owners and custodians.
"This declaration will give much comfort to traditional owners and custodians and I welcome the Government's commitment to protect sacred sites which are integral to the Northern Territory's cultural heritage," he said.
Amateur Fishermen's Association of the NT executive officer David Ciaravolo believes "a lot of people will be frustrated" by the zoning, as they were much larger than expected. 
While a draft was released in 2016, based on sacred sites in the area, it was then "refined" following the NT Government's consultations with the Aboriginal Areas Protection Authority, the Northern Land Council, traditional owners and custodians. 
"With one of the popular camping beaches on Indian Island we've got a situation where we thought we were going to have potentially a 150-metre exclusion zone [but] we have about three kilometres of beach that's very popular for camping now off-limits."
But he said the Government had failed to warn the public that the exclusion zones would be larger than anticipated before bringing them into effect.
"We're quite disappointed that today we have a situation where these areas have come into effect. It's the first opportunity that the community has had to see the maps and understand exactly what that is, on the day that it comes into effect," he said.
Opposition Leader Gary Higgins welcomed the move, saying it would give people certainty as to where they could go.
"While there has been removal of some areas that were previously accessible by everyone, there's also now confirmation that people will be able to crab in a lot of the creeks that were a bit of a question," he said. 
ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.
New national security adviser John Bolton has a history of taking hardline positions on foreign policy — here's a snapshot of his views on some hot topics currently facing the White House.
This week we discovered Australians have shocking dental hygiene, artificial intelligence is being used to crack down on jaywalking, and there's another celebrity running for office. Let's see what you can remember.
The AFL's relentless course to national sporting pre-eminence has come at a cost, writes Richard Hinds. But fans still have hope thanks to a couple of fairytale flag wins.
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.