Speaking at a press conference, Alexander Yakovenko complained that Britain had refused to cooperate with Moscow over the investigation into the poisoning of Sergei and Yulia Skripal. “We have seen no evidence,” he said.
The foreign secretary predicted on Thursday that Putin would revel in the World Cup to be hosted by Moscow in the same way that Adolf Hitler did in the Olympic Games in Berlin in 1936. He also suggested that the UK might advise England football fans to avoid travelling to the tournament for their own safety.
Yakovenko offered his own riposte. “Nobody has the right to insult the Russian people who defeated nazism and lost more than 25m people by comparing our country to Nazi Germany,” he said. 
“We are not buying this. First we have to see the evidence and see the conclusions,” he added, complaining that the British authorities had refused consular access to the Skripals and had kept the embassy in the dark. He wished the Skripals a speedy recovery.
The ambassador defended the use of the embassy’s Twitter account to send sarcastic messages, including a photograph of the Belgian detective Poirot and the message: “In the absence of evidence, we definitely need a Poirot in Salisbury!”
Yakovenko suggested that the Kremlin had nothing to do with the string of deaths of Russian opponents of Putin, at home and in the UK. He said that Putin’s statement that traitors should be punished was “taken out of context”. Asked if Russia’s newly re-elected president was a “serial killer”, he said: “This is not a correct question.” 
Johnson replied: “I think that your characterisation of what is going to happen in Moscow, the World Cup, in all the venues – yes, I think the comparison with 1936 is certainly right. It is an emetic prospect of Putin glorying in this sporting event.”
Yakovenko’s defiant comments show that the diplomatic row between Moscow and London is set to continue, with the Kremlin’s position implacable. 
The ambassador also complained that he had been given no details of the investigation into the murder of Nikolai Glushkov, found strangled at his London home. “He was a Russian citizen,” Yakovenko said.