
          This Country Just Banned A Humiliating And Painful Exam For Men Suspected Of Being Gay
        

          
          Forced anal exams are still carried out in several countries despite being considered a degrading form of torture and having no medical merit.
        
Forced anal exams as a means of determining a man’s sexuality are common practice in at least nine countries — seven of which are in Africa — despite being considered a degrading form of torture in international law and being found to have no medical merits by physicians. And while some have vowed to ban the exams, Kenya is the first country to have a documented case where judges have ruled against them.
Njeri Gateru, the head of legal affairs for Kenya’s National Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission, said in a statement sent to BuzzFeed News that the advocacy group is “thankful that the Appeal Court has put Kenyan citizens’ rights first. With this ruling, the judges are saying that we all deserve to be treated with dignity and afforded our basic rights, as enshrined in the Kenyan Constitution.”
Gateru added that the “humiliation and pain caused by these useless anal examinations will follow our clients for the rest of their lives. However, we are emboldened to see our constitution at work, ensuring that all Kenyans have the right to dignity.”
Human Rights Watch senior researcher Neela Ghoshal, who has interviewed both the men and the doctor who carried out their exams, told BuzzFeed News that the arrests were the result of an online pornography scandal that increased criminal profiling of LGBT people. Many people suspected that some of the men in the videos were from the area.
An attorney makes his argument in a packed courthouse during a hearing on the constitutionality of Kenya's penal codes.
“There was a lot of pressure on police to do something about it and arrest someone,” she said. “Police had to prove that they were taking action. But rather than go after the Europeans who may have been behind it, they started arresting people they believed were gay or transgender.”
But Ghoshal said that it will be easier to determine whether or not the ruling on forced anal testing could be an indicator of a turning point for LGBT cases once the language of the judges’ decision has been released. (So far, only the decision has been publicized.)
“If it’s a more expansive ruling that says it looks like people were targeted because of their sexual orientation, that would be more helpful language,” she said. “If the language is more narrow, it might be of only limited help in the decriminalization case.”
Ghoshal also pointed out that Kenya’s case will likely serve as precedent for other African countries preparing to fight the act in court.
“In Uganda, activists are planning to file a case in the next couple months,” she said, “I’m sure this decision in Kenya will be an inspiration and motivation to them.”

        
          You're almost there! Check your inbox and confirm your subscription now!
        
      

        
          You're almost there! Check your inbox and confirm your subscription now!
        
      