
As experts warn of global infectious diseases timebomb, Colombia records its first measles case in years 

A crippling shortage of medicines and vaccines, as well as decaying hospitals and an exodus of doctors has thrown Venezuela’s health sector into a tailspin
However, the fourth horseman is more persistent: Colombian health officials announced last week that the country’s first case of measles in years has arrived in its second-biggest city as health experts warn of a world-wide perfect storm of highly infectious diseases. 
Declining vaccination rates in the developed world combining with vulnerable populations displaced from conflict zones ensure that diseases evade eradication. 
At a press conference in Medellin, Colombia, Health Minister Alejandro Gaviria confirmed an unvaccinated 14-month-old Venezuelan boy arrived in the city from Caracas and became the first measles case since 2015. 
A crippling shortage of medicines and vaccines, as well as decaying hospitals and an exodus of doctors has thrown Venezuela’s health sector into a tailspin, and its problems are spreading across its borders.
Now Colombian authorities are tracking down the 32 people who were most likely to have been exposed to the boy so they can be vaccinated.
Venezuelan citizens hold up their identification cards for inspection by the Colombian immigration police in Cucuta
“Fortunately, here in Colombia, we have a relatively calm situation. Our vaccination rates [for measles] here In Medellin are 100 percent,” Mr Gaviria said.
A report from Venezuelan health groups warned that at least 1.15 million babies had not been vaccinated since 2007.
Professor Peter Openshaw, President of the British Society for Immunology told The Daily Telegraph that measles is a particularly virulent disease, leading to extremely serious complications for some patients. 
“In a population where no one is vaccinated, it’s estimated that each person with measles would, on average, pass the infection on to eight other people - an extraordinarily high rate of transmission," he said. 
He added that in England and Wales in 1967, the year before the vaccine was introduced, there were 460,407 cases of measles, but in the past few years, there have only been around 130 cases per year in England and Wales.
A short video produced by the British Society for Immunology explains the ‘secret sauce’ behind vaccination: herd immunity. 
“If only a few people are vaccinated, then when one person is infected, the disease spreads very fast,” explains the video, "but if lots of people are vaccinated, the disease can’t spread very far, so the whole community stays safe.”
Venezuelan citizens arrive in the La Parada neighborhood of Cucuta, Colombia, many of whom require urgent medical attention
It was only after investigative journalist Brian Deer thoroughly debunked the claims that Wakefield’s co-authors and the journal retracted the paper.  
However, the damage was done. Since the paper’s release, UK families had experienced more than 12,000 cases of measles, hundreds of hospitalizations — many with serious complications — and at least three deaths.  
Professor Openshaw warns that under-vaccination impacts on neighbouring countries and threatens to undo decades of work. “In September 2016, the Americas was the first region in the world to be declared free of measles.
This was culmination of a 22-year effort of mass vaccination and a major public health achievement costing many millions of dollars,” he said. 
“But infectious diseases don’t respect borders. If the vaccination programme breaks down in one country, that makes it much more likely that cases will be imported into another country.”
A Brazilian Health Surveillance worker talks with Venezuelans waiting in queue in front of the Brazil Federal Police Office 
According to local health authorities, all eight are unvaccinated Venezuelan children, with lab work confirming the strain is identical to one from Venezuela identified in 2017.
Figures provided to The Daily Telegraph by Colombia’s health ministry paint a picture of an increasing number of diseases being brought into the country.
From the beginning of 2017 until mid-February of 2018, 882 Venezuelans presented at Colombian health clinics with Malaria, 15 with Dengue, 93 with HIV/AIDS, 52 with Tuberculosis and 2 with Diptheria. 
One of those patients, a Venezuelan toddler, died of diptheria in January 2018 in the Colombian border region of La Guajira.
Diphtheria is another potentially deadly childhood disease that, according to the WHO, had previously been eradicated from both Colombia and Venezuela.
“Any country that has low vaccination rates is prone to outbreaks, like we’ve seen in the UK and Europe, but  because of the unrest in conflict zones, vaccine programs break down and vaccinations just don’t happen,” he said. 
“You then have a population that is more susceptible to disease in the first place and worse, they are living in conditions where hygiene breaks down.”
For example, the manufacturer of the MMR vaccine recommends the medicine should be kept in a fridge with an uninterrupted power supply - something that’s increasingly hard to come by in Venezuela, Syria and Yemen. 
A girl looks at a nurse as she prepares an anti-diphtheria vaccine for her at a health centre in Sana'a, Yemen 
“It’s a global problem and one we should be acutely aware of.  The World Health Organization aims to eradicate measles from at least five WHO regions by 2020. 
This can only be achieved by all countries implementing an effective vaccination programme to eliminate the disease to ensure there are no pockets of residual disease from which an outbreak can start.”
Austin bomber could be carrying out 'trial run' for bigger attack as new blast raises fears in Texas area
Guernsey could become first place in British Isles to have a suicide clinic with vote on assisted dying laws
Essay mill websites must warn students about risks of submitting fake work, advertising watchdog rules
Drugs to vaccinate over-50s against Alzheimer’s could be here in a decade...with a £ 9bn price tag
Corbyn and McCluskey tighten grip on Labour party as ally Jennie Formby appointed party's new general secretary
Russian agents learn from Litvinenko errors to devise hit on Sergei Skripal that leaves police baffled
The Great Celebrity Bake Off, episode 3, review: Jamie Laing, heir to the McVitie's fortune, bakes the worst cake ever 
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.