'Life will never be the same again': Salisbury poisoning police officer speaks as he leaves hospital as judge hears spy's daughter briefly CAME ROUND after attack 'but she and her father may now NEVER recover'
Detective Sergeant Nick Bailey (pictured), who was rushed to hospital following the incident, has now been discharged 
The hero police officer who was left in critical condition after the Salisbury poisoning has said his life will never be the same again after he was discharged from hospital today.  
Speaking about the incident for the first time, Detective Sergeant Nick Bailey, 38, said he has been 'overwhelmed' by events since he was rushed into care following his exposure to the nerve agent Novichok on March 4.
DS Bailey had rushed to provide assistance to Sergei Skripal, 66, and his daughter Yulia, 33 in Salisbury. 
According to The Times, it is claimed Yulia briefly regained consciousness after being rushed into hospital along with her father.
Upon DS Bailey's release from hospital, Chief Constable of Wiltshire Police Keir Pritchard described the experience of his officer as 'completely surreal'.   
Reading a statement on behalf of DS Bailey, Mr Pritchard said: 'I recognise that "normal" life for me will probably never be the same - and Sarah and I now need to focus on finding a new normal for us and for our children.'
It comes as doctors were granted permission to take blood samples from the unconscious Sergei Skripal and daughter Yulia, who a judge said may never regain full mental capacity.
In his statement, DS Bailey went on: 'People ask me how I am feeling - but there are really no words to explain how I feel right now.' 
He added: 'I have spent all my time since the incident really focusing on trying to get better and trying not to think about anything else.
'But as I have begun to feel better, I have become aware of the widespread and enormous attention this whole incident has attracted. 
'I find this really overwhelming - I am just a normal person with a normal life, and I don't want my wife, children, family or I to be part of that attention. I do hope the public can understand that.' 
In a separate statement, DS Bailey's wife Sarah said that her 'hero' husband's poisoning had been 'the most traumatic event of our life'.
A judge has given doctors the go-ahead to take blood samples from Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia for testing by the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons
In a statement read by Wiltshire Police Chief Constable Kier Pritchard (left) today, DS Bailey (right) explained that the experience of his poisoning had been 'completely surreal'
Chief executive of Salisbury NHS Foundation Trust Cara Charles-Barks (left, centre) said that for reasons of patient confidentiality there would be no discussion of DS Bailey's condition. The Skripals (right), however, are still in critical condition, she said 
'I am so grateful for the support from our immediate family and friends and the police family liaison officers through this last few weeks - I really don't know how I would have coped without them.
Chief executive of Salisbury NHS Foundation Trust Cara Charles-Barks, who also spoke at the press conference outside Salisbury District Hospital today, said that for reasons of patient confidentiality there would be no further discussion of DS Bailey's condition. She also said the Skripals remained in a critical but stable condition. 
DS Bailey, a father of two, had spent almost three weeks in hospital after coming into contact with the Novichok nerve agent used to try to kill former double agent Sergei and his daughter Yulia.
While being looked after his home was sealed off by forensic teams in Hazmat suits searching for more traces of the deadly nerve agent. His car was also taken away for examination at the Porton Down facility.  
'I have been so very overwhelmed by the support, cards and messages I have received - everyone has been so incredible,' DS Bailey added.
Salisbury NHS Trust chief Ms Charles-Barks also said 48 other people sought advice from the hospital after the nerve agent attack and have been assessed and given advice.
It came after senior judge Mr Justice Williams made a key ruling in the Court of Protection allowing medics to take blood samples from the Skripals without consent, but also added that the duo may never regain their full mental capacity.
Giving his ruling, Mr Justice Williams said an unidentified consultant who is treating the Skripals said they were both heavily sedated, unable to communicate and that it was not possible to say when or to what extent either may regain mental capacity.  
Investigators work in the garden of Sergei Skripal's house in Salisbury. A taped checklist can be seen on the back of one of the workers 
They were both in a physically stable condition and were being treated 'on the basis they would wish to be kept alive', the consultant said, according to Williams' ruling at the London's Court of Protection, which makes decision over the welfare of people who are unable to do so themselves.
'The precise effect of their exposure on their long term health remains unclear albeit medical tests indicate that their mental capacity might be compromised to an unknown and so far unascertained degree,' Williams said in his judgement.  
Mr Justice Williams, who is based in the Family Division of the High Court in London, announced his decision today after analysing the case at a private hearing earlier this week.
He said doctors at Salisbury NHS Foundation Trust could provide blood samples to the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW).
During the later press conference outside Salisbury District Hospital today, meanwhile, Wiltshire Police Chief Constable Kier Pritchard read a short statement from DS Bailey. 
Police in gas masks start to remove their protective overalls at Ashley Wood Recovery in Salisbury where the car belonging to former Russian spy Sergei Skripal
The officer said: 'Some days we've had about 300 messages from officers, the wider police family and the public. 
'The level of support has been unbelievable and I've tried to respond to what I can, but I want to say I have really appreciated every single message.'  
He added: 'All the stories of community spirit - from the local businesses providing food and hot drinks to the officers standing for endless hours on the cordons, to the members of the public just showing their support for our work - have been quite simply overwhelming to hear about.
'I want to pay tribute and give my absolute and heartfelt thanks to the staff of Salisbury District Hospital. The care I have received from the medical staff has been simply outstanding from day one - from the man that cleans the floor to the doctors giving the treatment - they have all been absolutely phenomenal. 
'Thank you just doesn't seem enough and just doesn't convey the gratitude I feel for what they have done for me.' 
He added: 'I want people to focus on the investigation - not the police officer who was unfortunate enough to be caught up in it.'  
The ruling came as it emerged a second police officer who was investigating the Salisbury nerve agent attack is being treated in hospital for suspected poisoning.
The uniformed PC is understood to have developed minor symptoms, including skin irritation, and is receiving treatment as an outpatient.
Police in protective suits at The Maltings shopping centre, where former Russian double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia were found poisoned (left) and in Alderholt, British military personnel are seen carrying plastic drums as the investigation continues (right)
A source told MailOnline: 'The second officer is showing potential signs of poisoning but they are very minor and not at all on the same scale as DS Bailey and the Skripals.
'At this stage it is unclear how he became ill but it is possible that he came into contact accidentally with an object that could have had some secondary contamination.
'He is receiving treatment at Salisbury General Hospital as an outpatient as his symptoms are not serious enough to warrant him being kept in.'   
Skripal, 66 and his 33-year-old daughter were found slumped on a bench in Salisbury, Wilsthire on March 4 after they had gone out for a drink and a meal at an Italian restaurant.
EU unites behind May over Russia: 'No plausible explanation' other than Kremlin was responsible for 'grave' Salisbury nerve agent attack 
Theresa May and EU leaders today agreed to stand together against Russia in the wake of the 'reckless' Salisbury nerve agent outrage, which they said represented a 'grave challenge to our shared security'.
The decision came after Mrs May gave EU leaders at the European Council summit in Brussels a detailed account of the evidence which led the UK to point the finger of blame at Moscow.
European Council president Donald Tusk wrote on Twitter: 'European Council agrees with UK government that highly likely Russia is responsible for Salisbury attack and that there is no other plausible explanation.'
The announcement came as reports suggested that as many as five EU countries - France, Poland and the three Baltic states - are considering following Britain's lead by expelling suspected Russian spies. 
Prime Minister Theresa May has met with French president Emmanuel Macron and German chancellor Angela Merkel to update them on the Salisbury poisoning
Leaders of the 28 EU states agreed with the UK that it is 'highly likely' Russia is responsible for the Salisbury nerve agent attack, European Council president Donald Tusk (pictured) has said
Theresa May chatted with French President Emmanuel Macron as she arrived at the EU summit where leaders are expected to rubber stamp the Brexit deal
Foreign ministers of the 28-nation bloc issued a statement on Monday voicing 'unqualified solidarity' with the UK, but stopping short of pointing the finger of blame at Moscow for the March 4 attack on ex-spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia.
Mrs May had earlier spoken separately with French president Emmanuel Macron and German chancellor Angela Merkel at the summit in Brussels, where the trio agreed there was 'no plausible explanation other than that the Russian state was responsible' for the poisoning of Sergei and Yulia Skripal.
At a press conference in Brussels, European Council president Donald Tusk and Commission president Jean-Claude Juncker dodged a question of whether they shared Britain's assessment that Russia is now 'a strategic enemy, not a strategic partner', saying only that the Salisbury attack would be discussed later.
Theresa May also chatted with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who she is pressing to take a tough stand on Russia in the wake of the Salisbury poison case 
Lithuania's president Dalia Grybauskaite said she was considering following Britain's lead by expelling Russian spies from her country.
Resistance to a firmer line with Moscow was apparently coming from Greece, whose prime minister Alexis Tsipras said: 'We have to express solidarity to the British people for the Salisbury case, but we also need to be responsible on that issue.'
Arriving at the summit, Mrs May said she would tell fellow leaders that she sees the attack on Mr Skripal as part of a pattern of Russian aggression which threatens the continent's democracies and requires a united response.
Wearing a white ribbon in commemoration of terror attacks in Westminster and Brussels, the Prime Minister said: 'Russia staged a brazen and reckless attack against the United Kingdom when it attempted the murder of two people in the streets of Salisbury. 
The text of a statement on the Salisbury attack agreed by the leaders of the EU's 28 member states at the European Council summit in Brussels read: 'The European Council condemns in the strongest possible terms the recent attack in Salisbury, expresses its deepest sympathies to all whose lives have been threatened and lends its support to the ongoing investigation.
'It agrees with the United Kingdom Government's assessment that it is highly likely that the Russian Federation is responsible and that there is no plausible alternative explanation. We stand in unqualified solidarity with the United Kingdom in the face of this grave challenge to our shared security.
'The use of chemical weapons, including the use of any toxic chemicals as weapons under any circumstances, is completely unacceptable, must be systematically and rigorously condemned and constitutes a security threat to us all.' 
They had been exposed to a powerful nerve agent developed in Russia called Novichok. The Russian government has been blamed for the attack.
Intelligence officials in the US believe they were possibly exposed to the nerve agent though Skripal's car ventilation system.
However, counter-terror officers from the Metropolitan Police, who are leading the investigation, are working on one strong line of inquiry that Yulia unwittingly brought over a contaminated item from Moscow.
The huge police operation is to continue in Salisbury for several months as officers comb through various sites across the city.
It has been reported that the vast scale of the investigation has meant that biochemical suits worn by terror officers are running low because they have to be removed every three hours and destroyed.
However, MailOnline understands that police are to appeal for a higher grade of suite that affords greater protection because of the presence of novichok.
The source said: 'The suits worn by police at the moment are fine for the investigations they are used to like raiding drug laboratories or handling more basic chemicals used by suspected terrorists.
'Novichoc, however, is a level up from what they are used to. This is a seriously dangerous nerve agent most likely made in a state-run laboratory somewhere in Russia.
'As a result police chiefs are going to request a higher spec of biochemical suit, more like the ones used by the military, to be given to those officers in Salisbury to give them greater protection.'
Counter-terror officers from the Metropolitan Police, who are leading the probe, are working on one line of inquiry that Yulia unwittingly brought over a contaminated item from Moscow
The clean-up in Salisbury will also take several months because novichok was designed specifically to avoid detection by chemical weapons inspectors.
It cannot be identified via hand-held chemical detection equipment or spray solutions normally used by the police to check if a toxic chemical is present.
Forensic teams will have to instead painstakingly swab every surface in areas of potential contamination before the public are allowed back.
Several cordons have sprung up across the city of Salisbury in Wiltshire after Skripal and Yulia were poisoned on March 4.
Sites of interest include The Mill pub, a branch of Italian chain restaurant Zizzi, Skripal's home and the cemetery where his wife and son have been buried.
Forensic teams will have to instead painstakingly swab every surface in areas of potential contamination before the public are allowed back
The clean-up in Salisbury will also take several months because novichok was designed specifically to avoid detection by chemical weapons inspectors
There are also fears that stocks of bio-chemical suits used by the police are getting low and they may have to call upon the military for help.
The source added: 'Novichok was developed by scientists especially to evade detection from weapons inspectors.
'That means that detectors carried by police to protect them from chemical and industrial toxic agents in drug and terror operations will be useless in this case.
'So too is the spray solution officers use which changes colour to indicate the presence of a harmful chemical.
'The only way the police can make sure an area of potential contamination does not pose a residual risk to the public is by swabbing every surface.
'Given the extent of this operation, the number of potentially contaminated sites that have been sealed off, it is likely to be a very thorough process that could take several months.
'Clearly senior officers will be aware of the impact this will have on business and commerce in Salisbury as well as the disruption to shoppers and they will work to prioritise sites.
'The problem is that Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) incidents are typically used to one site which takes a few days to assess.
It is claimed that the scale of the investigation has meant that biochemical suits worn by terror officers are running low because they have to be removed every three hours and destroyed
'On this occasion there are several sites which are taking many days to investigate, so much so that stocks of bio-chemical suits used by the police are in danger of running low.
'In that incidence, either the military will have to take over or the police forensics teams will have to use their suits.'
Traders in Salisbury have reported significant losses because shoppers are too scared to come into the city centre.
Daniel Styles, who runs a popular flower stall, told Spire FM how he had been left £9,000 down over the Mother's Day weekend.
He told the local radio station: 'It's normally one of the biggest weekends of the year for us, we make quite a large amount of money that carries us through the year.
One of the experts searching Sergei Skripal's Salisbury home for evidence after his nerve agent poisoning has been photographed with what appears to be a list of objects to be swabbed. 
The A4 sheet, headed simply 'swabs', consists mostly of various handles on doors around the home that are presumably lined up for inspection. 
The A4 sheet, headed simply 'swabs', consists mostly of various handles on doors around the home that are presumably lined up for inspection

      The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
    
  We will automatically post your comment and a link to the news story to your Facebook timeline at the same time it is posted on MailOnline. To do this we will link your MailOnline account with your Facebook account. We’ll ask you to confirm this for your first post to Facebook.

          Revealed: Row with the Queen that led Charles to demand she get rid of her favourite courtier
          

          He's the Man in her Mirror! Charlotte Crosby reveals she LIKES being compared to Michael Jackson following her cosmetic procedures
          

          'Miss you': Brooklyn Beckham struggles to be apart from mum Victoria as he shares a throwback snap of the former Spice Girl in plunging swimwear
          

          'It's unlikely he will appear in an ad for them again': Ant McPartlin 'set to be AXED from his £20million deal with car firm Suzuki' following drink-drive arrest
          

          'No I'm just fat right now!' Drew Barrymore reveals awkward interaction with woman who mistakenly thought she was PREGNANT
          

          EXCLUSIVE: George Of The Jungle's Brendan Fraser, 49, tans in Barbados... after revealing movie stunts left him with life-long damage to his body
          

          'Sorry, your opinions don't pay my mortgage!' Myleene Klass SLAMS cruel trolls for telling her to 'put it away' after THAT nude photoshoot
          

          'Both sides are aware of the elephant in the room': Declan Donnelly and ITV 'in crisis talks on how to tackle Ant McPartlin's absence on SNT final shows'
          

          Supermodel Kate Moss teases her cleavage in slinky black dress and tasselled coat as she joins elegant best pal Sadie Frost at glittering Vogue party
          

          'Unwell' Prince Philip, 96, pulls out of ceremony at Windsor to mark Duke of York taking over his role as Colonel of the Grenadier Guards 
          

          Leggy Holly Willoughby looks ladylike in a ruffled floral dress as she joins BFF Fearne Cotton and Georgia Toffolo for Celebrity Juice filming
          

          Ex-TOWIE star Fran Parman suffers a wardrobe malfunction going braless on night out with gal pal Gerogia Harrison... after 3.5 stone weight loss
          

          Ant McPartlin's estranged wife Lisa Armstrong looks strained at Britain's Got Talent filming... while the host heads back to rehab after arrest
          

          Pamela Anderson, 50, shows off her curves in a silk gown as she attends Global Gift Gala in Madrid... after son Brandon punched her ex Tommy Lee
          

          From drab to fab! Heidi Klum braves Los Angeles's downpour as she glams up to judge season 13 of America's Got Talent
          

          JAN MOIR: Ant ISN'T the real victim whatever his celeb pals say as he nearly ended the lives of an entire family 
          

          EXCLUSIVE: Human Ken Doll Rodrigo Alves causes a stir in Moscow as he admits he's 'gender fluid' on live TV... before JOINING IN with a male strip tease
          

          Date night! Blake Lively shows off her legs in bold check dress as she flirts up a storm with husband Ryan Reynolds at  Final Portrait premiere in NYC
          

          Newly-single Selena Gomez nails Nineties chic in oversized denim and gold hoops... after hitting back at trolls who slammed her kidney transplant scars
          

          Love Island's Gabby Allen flashes her abs in gold co-ord as she puckers up to Marcel Somerville... after revealing vile racial abuse they receive 
          

          She's got swagger now! Bella Hadid looks a picture of confidence after revealing she's overcome insecurities and 'grown into' her face 
          

          EastEnders' Kat  immediately sparked a  fight in which all were wearing fake tan and leopardskin, even Danny Dyer, by JIM SHELLEY
          

          It's not over yet! Justin Bieber 'thinks and talks about Selena Gomez all the time' despite recent night out with swimsuit model Baskin Champion
          

          'I owe my Oscar to my Dad': How Rachel Shenton's father's cancer and deafness spurred the Hollyoaks star to Hollywood glory
          

          Keri Russell giggles as Matthew Rhys jokes about their sex scenes on The Americans... as couple promote final season of FX series on The Late Show
          

          Pharrell Williams steps out in striped sweatpants after federal appeals court upholds Blurred Lines lawsuit verdict
          

          'I had some friends sage me': Zac Efron reveals he asked to be 'spiritually cleansed' after playing serial killer Ted Bundy
          

          Style icon! Beyonce wears Victoriana-inspired dress and gothic dark lipstick as she treats fans to snaps of new outfit on Instagram
          

          Bonding time! Candice Swanepoel covers baby belly in black winter coat as she bundles up for chilly NYC outing with mother Eileen
          

          Gorgeous in gingham! Jessica Biel looks effortlessly chic as she enjoys a solo stroll through NYC neighborhood
          

          'I am so pleased at how far I have come': Shirtless Dan Osborne looks unrecognisable in throwback snap as he shows off muscular transformation
          

          'This is a dream of mine': Khloe Kardashian flashes bare baby bump as she models black lingerie in bed with a shirtless Tristan Thompson
          

          'You will do Ant proud': Declan Donnelly is showered with support as he prepares to host Saturday Night Takeaway alone while McPartlin is in rehab
          

          'I got you covered!' Bella Thorne buys up all the tickets for a showing of her movie Midnight Sun at an LA theater to give out free to fans
          

          Jade Goody's grave site is a poignant reminder of the late star on the ninth anniversary of her death... as husband Jack Tweed pays heartfelt tribute
          

          'It takes a strong woman': Kylie Jenner's BFF Jordyn Woods says Stormi's mom is figuring out how to be a mother as she goes
          

          Happy and healthy Stephanie Davis teases her return to the screen as she enjoys day full of 'exciting meetings'... two years after last TV appearance
          

          She's a catch! The Bachelor star Lauren Bushnell cosies up to boyfriend Devin Antin as she showcases flat belly in crop top at Mermaid Museum event
          

          Breaking the fourth wall! Ryan Reynolds makes a snarky reference to his wife Blake Lively  in latest Deadpool 2 trailer
          

          Antonio Banderas, 57, shows off his clean-shaven head and brows as he's joined by leggy girlfriend Nicole Kempel, 37, at Genius Picasso world premiere 
          

          'Whatever she's taking, can I have some?': Lulu, 69, leaves fans marvelling over youthful appearance... before they slam her 'egotistical' interview
          

          She has a flare for fashion! Olivia Culpo looks effortlessly stylish in white blouse tucked into retro denim for breakfast meeting
          

          'It's been true for some time': Oscar-winning Hollywood heavyweight Sean Penn admits he's 'not in love' with acting anymore
          

          Let's get physical! Shane Warne's ex-wife Simone Callahan flaunts her age-defying physique in an '80s inspired leotard and leg warmers during yoga 
          

          Time to check the letterbox! Meghan and Harry's 600 wedding invites have been printed with gold and American ink on English card and sent out 
          

          She couldn't Carey less! Newly-single Gemma Chan is a vision in bridal-inspired gown as she joins glamorous Mulligan at fashion bash
          

          TV presenter Joan Bakewell reveals how she foolishly fell victim to an online face cream 'scam' 
          

          Heating up snowy Manhattan! Demi Lovato models sheer black tank top under flashy coat after having to cancel New Jersey concert due to storm
          

          Kady McDermott shows off her tiny waist in checked trousers as she reunites with former Love Island pal Cally Jane Beech at star-studded bar launch
          

          'I'm not a fan': Janet Street-Porter RIPS into Cheryl before going on to hint pop star's romance with Liam Payne is FAKE
          

          Elegant Camilla Kerslake rocks a feathered shift dress as she enjoys night out at charity gala with her rugby hunk fiancé Chris Robshaw
          

          She said yes! Billy Joel's ex Katie Lee announces engagement to television producer Ryan Biegel as she flashes diamond ring
          

          Birthday girl Reese Witherspoon looks ready for spring in floral dress as she celebrates turning 42 with lunch out in Hollywood
          

          Cate Blanchett claims she 'knew nothing about allegations' that Woody Allen molested his daughter... and adds social media 'is not judge or jury'
          

          She's no diva! Rob Kardashian's ex Blac Chyna, 29, forgoes a trendy umbrella handler to carry her own as she heads to gym without beau YBN, 18
          

          Playboy model Carla Howe  saucily flashes her ample underboob in tiny crop-top as she works up a sweat during work-out session
          

          Can't rain on her parade! Irina Shayk flashes her legs despite the wet weather during grocery run with Bradley Cooper
          

          Renee Zellweger transforms into icon Judy Garland with co-star Finn Wittrock - who plays late actress' fifth husband Mickey Deans - for forthcoming biopic
          

          'Everything happened perfectly': Jeff Goldblum, 65, reveals he's happier than ever raising two young boys with third wife
          

          'I live here now': Lea Michele flashes her booty in high-cut neon swimsuit as she shares sexy snaps from idyllic Maui getaway
          

          Hollyoaks SPOILER: Is he back to finish Tegan off? Murderer Ryan Knight RETURNS to the village and reunites with secret boyfriend Ste 
          

          Ouch! Courtney Stodden, 23, gets belly button pierced as she attempts to get her confidence back after divorce from Doug Hutchison, 57
          

          Darren Aronofsky takes aim at 'method actor' ex Jennifer Lawrence for 'losing control' when she tore her diaphragm filming Mother!
          

          'You've got to have sex with cancer!' Terminally ill Linda Nolan, 59, explains her incurable condition doesn't mean she has to avoid having a physical relationship
          

          Rhian Sugden flaunts her ample cleavage in skimpy bralet and briefs as she details pre-wedding workout regime
          

          One tough Cookie! Taraji P Henson is chic in shiny black coat as she heads to Today show interview in New York
          

          Kieran Hayler's mother appears to CONFIRM Katie Price reunion by sharing cosy snap of the duo... as the model likes post to celebrate his 31st birthday
          

          'Beach chillin': Make-up free Megan McKenna flaunts her flat stomach as she poses in a bikini during romantic getaway with 'Muggy' Mike Thalassitis
          

          Greetings from Mexico! Bachelor vets JoJo Fletcher and Becca Tilley model swimsuits as they hit the beach in Tulum
          

          Julianne Moore is the picture of elegance in a smart bow-embellished blouse as she joins Colin Firth at jewellery event in Switzerland
          

          Owen Wilson 'sparks hotel evacuation in Florida after lighting up a cigarette while on a date with mystery blonde'
          

          Coming up roses! Lady Kitty Spencer dons a £3,000 Dolce & Gabbana floral ensemble for a night at the opera in London
          

          Jean-etically blessed! Mollie King nails double denim in a casual jacket and ankle-grazing flared jeans as she enjoys a day out in London
          

          Coronation Street SPOILER: Male rape victim David Platt RUNS out of court unable to face his attacker... as controversial storyline's receives 200 complaints
          

          Chloe Sims turns heads in plunging satin suit and bold bunny mask as she and abs-flashing Lauren Pope lead the glamour at TOWIE's Easter party
          

          High-maintenance Erika Jayne struts around in animal print coat and boots after revealing she spends $40K-A-MONTH just on her appearance
          

          'I don't care if he hates me': Drew Barrymore ranks Jake Gyllenhaal her least talented co-star during appearance on The Late Late Show with James Corden
          

          'I basically never do it': Gwyneth Paltrow, 45, reveals she has given up cleanses while adding she eats basics like chicken and salad for lunch
          

          Red carpet stunner! Adria Arjona dazzles in plunging black ball gown for Pacific Rim Uprising premiere in Los Angeles
          

          Serene in green! Crown Princess Victoria of Sweden dazzles in an emerald gown at a WaterAid event in Stockholm
          

          Smiling Katie Piper shows off her svelte frame as she arrives at Westminster for the Women's Health Conference in a figure-hugging cream sweater 
          

          Sex and the pity: Kim Cattrall posts dismissive tweet about Cynthia Nixon running for governor of New York
          

          'You're my world': Liam Payne shares VERY rare glimpse of baby Bear in touching first birthday tribute... after confessing to 'struggles' with Cheryl
          

          The great royal cook off! Pregnant Kate goes head-to-head with William in the kitchen during her final royal engagement before maternity leave 
          

          Having a good hare day! Amber Turner and newly-single Chloe Meadows look like the ultimate bunny girls as they film TOWIE Easter party
          

          F-easter your eyes on this! Georgia Kousoulou flaunts her ample cleavage in a plunging bunny outfit for seasonal TOWIE filming
          

          Lucy Mecklenburgh cuts a chic figure in leather jacket and ripped jeans as she reunites with beau Ryan Thomas for lunch date in Manchester
          

          Hofit Golan shows off her washboard abs in plunging printed bikini as she hits the beach in Thailand with pal Victoria Bonya
          

          'I thought I was going to die!' Emily Blunt reveals she was terrified while filming iconic Mary Poppins flying scene because she's afraid of heights 
          

          Beyonce and Gucci team up on World Water Day to bring the precious resource to the children in East Africa
          

          Date night! Courteney Cox gets a hug from beau Johnny McDaid after dinner in Malibu... as it's rumored they'll wed in Ireland this summer
          

          Started from the bottom, now we sneer! TOWIE veteran Lauren Goodger slams reality stars in scathing attack... as she enjoys ANOTHER night out
          

          Bella Hadid reveals she didn't wear cosmetics until she was 18 - because she spent all her time riding rather than thinking about looks 
          

          Look at me now! Chris Brown stands out in bright red overalls and white hoodie while out with his entourage in Hollywood
          

          That's just how I roll! Rita Ora puffs on a cigarette as she demonstrates her bowling skills during fun day out with pals in LA
          

          Shirtless Kem Cetinay shows off his gym-honed physique as he joins Dancing On Ice champion Jake Quickenden for tour photocall
          

          No wonder she's slender! Karlie Kloss looks happy as she leaves Dogpound gym... where she was asked to push a MAN on a sled through the snow
          

          'It's good for your pelvic floor' Coronation Street actress Catherine Tyldesley shares her love of 'vaginal meditation' using crystals
          

          'I couldn't be outdone by a six-year-old!' Tyler Perry admits he's the one who outbid Beyonce and Jay-Z's daughter Blue Ivy at charity auction
          

          Pregnant Vogue Williams masks her growing bump in baggy jumper as she locks lips with fiancé Spencer Matthews during low-key dog walk 
          

          Jennifer Aniston, 49, has 'barely spoken' to Justin Theroux, 46, since split and 'isn't thinking about dating'... after claims she's back with Brad Pitt
          

          Another split! Avengers: Infinity War actor Chris Evans parts ways again with Jenny Slate... after reconciling in October
          

          'She blabs on a bit!' Five Star Hotel's Ashley Cain admits he shared a secret smooch with Lydia Bright... but rules out romance as he 'can't deal with her stories'
          

          'Katy Perry is used to getting everything she wants': Last nun, 80, left in the fight over Los Angeles convent vows to stand her ground
          

          Could Kate and William's baby arrive on their ANNIVERSARY? New child could follow suit of pattern with Prince George and Princess Charlotte 
          

          Chris Hemsworth's wife Elsa Pataky, 41, fearlessly plunges off VERY high diving board in her swimsuit... as she takes time away from mummy duties
          

          Flip Or Flop's Christina El Moussa wraps leg around beau Ant Anstead while passionately kissing him during visit to his England hometown
          

          Ellie Goulding 'IS on the guestlist for former flame Prince Harry's wedding to Meghan Markle' after remaining 'good pals'... as 'three famous exes get invites'
          

          There's snow stopping her! Naomi Watts braces for NYC weather... as the  beauty fuels romance rumors with actor Billy Crudup
          

          'We might do a destination wedding': Arie Luyendyk Jr. and Lauren Burnham reveal they want to marry this summer
          

          Bethenny Frankel mocks Luann de Lesseps for serenading her with Marilyn Monroe-inspired rendition of Happy Birthday in RHONY 
          

          'Happy birthday friend!': Jennifer Garner plays the saxophone for Reese Witherspoon while wishing the star well as she turns 42
          

          Duchess of Cornwall makes a Easter bonnet during a visit to an elderly people's centre (and one enthusiastic trader tries to flog her a coat for Charles)
          

          Katy Perry relists her Hollywood Hills compound for reduced price of $9.3million... seven months after failing to sell lavish home for $200K more
          

          'Let's go get our f*** on!': Ryan Reynolds battles Josh Brolin in new foul-mouthed and bloody Deadpool 2 trailer
          

          Former GOT star Sean Bean swaps Westeros for Crewe as shooting gets underway for new street racing series Curfew
          

          Need an iron? Emily Ratajkowski teams creased silk shirt with tracksuit pants on girls' night out... after sharing naked honeymoon snaps
          

          EastEnders' Dean Gaffney, 40, wraps his arm around glamorous girlfriend Rebekah Ward, 24, as they enjoy glitzy night out at magazine bash
          

          Sophie Kasaei details her terror after armed intruder threatened to stab her at home... as he is sentenced to six years in prison
          

          Another royal baby? Bookies slash the odds on Harry and Meghan making a pregnancy announcement THIS YEAR after they tie the knot in May
          

          'It stinks of selling tickets!' Rod Stewart playfully hints pal Elton John's impromptu retirement is a marketing ploy... as he vows to 'just fade away'
          

          Pretty in pink! Emma Roberts heads to Chateau Marmont in floaty floral frock and chic coat
          

          The couple that prays together! Ciara's husband is a total gent as he opens car door for her during church outing in Beverly Hills
          

          Jade Thirlwall and Perrie Edwards flash a glimpse of their taut abs in sizzling ensembles as they jet into Tokyo alongside Little Mix bandmates
          

          The Bachelor babe Anna Heinrich looks blooming lovely in flattering jumpsuit as she poses against floral wall at glitzy event
          

          'I need to heal myself emotionally': Megan Fox is cryptic about status of her marriage to Brian Austin Green after 2016 split and subsequent baby
          

          Cuddly! Kate Bosworth looks effortlessly chic in beige teddy bear coat as she lands at LA airport
          

          Countess of Wessex commissions terminally ill photographer, 24, to take her new portrait - as he battles cancer caused by condition that makes skin blister 
          

          Bleary-eyed Sarah Harding looks dishevelled as she dances home from magazine bash before grappling with her daring dress in the taxi
          

          Jerry O'Connell will play Sheldon's older brother Georgie on The Big Bang Theory's season 11 finale
          

          'Anyone think Dave's still in love with Sue?' Mummy Diaries fans go wild as they urge Sam and Billie's 'perfect' mum to reunite with lovelorn step-dad 
          

          The naked chef! Jodie Marsh gets cheeky as she poses in nothing but an apron and heeled boots while cooking up a storm in the kitchen
          

          'We don't shovel much sewage on the King's Road!' Georgia 'Toff' Toffolo gets her hands dirty as she visits a waste treatment centre for This Morning 
          

          Looking FLY! Rita Ora flaunts her incredible abs in a blue cropped shirt as she poses up a storm on-board a private jet 
          

          Fish, veggies, and SEVEN days a week in the gym: Alicia Vikander's trainer reveals how star gained 12 POUNDS of muscle to play Lara Croft 
          

          PICTURED: Jonah Hill is seen for the first time since his late brother Jordan Feldstein's autopsy results were revealed
          

          Petra Ecclestone stuns in a sparkling dress as she joins sister Tamara for family night out... following claims ex-husband James Stunt is ENGAGED
          

          'Everybody was having a good day': Lionel Richie jumps to the defence of Katy Perry amid backlash after she kissed American Idol singer
          

          Floral fancy: Ashley Greene strikes a pose as she turns heads in a printed red dress at pop-up museum launch
          

          'Posing for my husband': Emily Ratajkowski shares naked photos from her luxury honeymoon in Utah 
          

          Time for bed? Rebekah Vardy changes into her PJs and wolfs down a cup of noodles while FaceTiming footballer husband Jamie after OK! bash
          

          'I was 37, with menopausal sweats... then I fell pregnant!' Andrea McLean, 48, reveals surprise of her second child during early-onset 'change'
          

          Girls just wanna have fun! Newly-single Chloe Meadows hits the town with TOWIE bestie Courtney Green as  split from Taylor Barnett is revealed
          

          James Corden reveals he STOLE a candle from Mariah Carey's home after she kept him waiting three hours to film Carpool Karaoke segment 
          

          As if by magic! Paul Daniels' widow Debbie McGee, 59, enjoys company of a dashing gentleman at dinner... after saying she 'doesn't want to be alone'
          

          Mellow in yellow: Lottie Moss makes a statement in bold denim co-ords as she puts on a leggy display at Boohoo bash in LA 
          

          Harvey Weinstein's wife Georgina Chapman steps out in the snow in New York after the shamed media mogul's company files for bankruptcy
          

          Britney Spears' dad 'DEMANDS to view her ex Kevin Federline's tax returns... following his request for a raise on his monthly $20K child support payments'
          

          Sean Wilson hints he would say YES to a full-time Coronation Street return... as he heads back to the cobbles to support son David after horrific rape ordeal
          

          'I am perfectly imperfect' Bikini-clad Stacey Solomon proudly flaunts her 'normal' figure on family holiday to give her fans 'realistic motivation'
          

          Ariel Winter accentuates her red-hot curves in a one-shoulder dress as she packs on the PDA with Levi Meaden at Pacific Rim Uprising premiere
          

           Holly Willoughby backs woman's 'brave' campaign to make 'upskirting' illegal after she reveals girls as young as TEN have fallen victim
          

          Busty Lauren Goodger flaunts her slimmed-down figure in a sheer bodysuit as she joins Stephanie Davis and Olivia Attwood at star-studded magazine bash
          

          Olivia Attwood proudly displays her abs and endless legs in scanty ensemble at glitzy magazine bash... after hitting back at 'anorexic' jibes in emotional rant
          

          One to (Bay)watch! Charlotte McKinney shows off her tremendous legs in tiny shorts and sexy knee-high boots on ladies' night
          

          The Mummy Diaries fans BLAST Paul Knightley as he throws a tantrum when Sam Faiers makes him under-cooked cheese on toast
          

          First glimpse of William and Harry (with their mate Tom Hardy) appearing in cameo roles as Stormtroopers in latest Star Wars film 
          

          Made In Chel-SEA! Tiffany Watson sets pulses racing as she poses in a lilac bikini while soaking up the sun on idyllic holiday in Thailand 
          

          Ant McPartlin 'gave Declan Donnelly his blessing' to host final SNT shows ALONE amid claims Dec has been left in a 'bad way' by pal's drink-drive 
          

          Dec gave Ant 'hugs' before he went to rehab as 'distraught' wife Lisa Armstrong tells friends she 'could have helped to save him' 
          

          Kerry Katona overhauls her image in a russet wig as she flexes her new muscles before performing daring high kicks in a dress split to her HIPS
          

          Getting off Scott free? TOWIE's Amber Turner puts on a VERY cosy display with Love Island star Thomas as they leave magazine bash together
          

          Zig-a-zig-urgh! Mel B cheekily sniffs her ARMPIT as she makes her stylish arrival in sexy strapless playsuit to film America's Got Talent
          

          Chris Hughes and Olivia Attwood leave fans shocked with their EXPLOSIVE break-up on Crackin' On... and even Baby Cash gets thrown into a box 
          

          'My life turned upside down': Emotional Christine McGuinness recalls finding out her twins, four, had autism... after getting 'back on track' with Paddy
          

          Child's play! Doting mom Kim Kardashian heads to children's store in LA as she works her magic in sporty black leggings and high heels
          

          Cara de la Hoyde locks lips with beau Nathan Massey during rare night off parenting duty as they lead Love Island stars at glitzy magazine bash 
          

          Pregnant Vogue Williams flaunts her blossoming baby bump in a white crop top and dusty pink flares as she attends OK! magazine bash
          

          'She would be PERFECT': Fans call on Scarlett Moffatt to co-host Saturday Night Takeaway with Declan Donnelly... as Ant McPartlin goes to rehab
          

          Hell for leather! Kourtney Kardashian is a hot mama in sizzling trench coat dress and matching ankle boots as she steps out with son Mason
          

          'You have to be covered up or else you're a slut': Bella Thorne struggles with 'hurtful' comments... as she wears skimpy outfits  in snowy NYC
          

          Her own best advert! Zendaya stuns in white jumpsuit at Los Angeles party thrown for her clothing line with British brand Boohoo
          

          Rocky's knockouts! Sylvester Stallone's model daughters Sophia and Sistine stun in stripes at LA fashion event for Zendaya's new line
          

          Hello, Gorgeous! Once-blonde Gigi poses up a storm with BLACK hair in fishnet mini-dress at Boohoo party in LA for Zendaya Edit line
          

          'Hiya fringe!' Charlotte Crosby debuts brand new edgy haircut... but fans can't tear their eyes away from her VERY plump pout
          

          Jean-ius! Justin Bieber keeps his cool in acid wash denim jacket as he heads to church... a day after hitting up club with Baskin Champion
          

          Oh, Sandy! Delta Goodrem is hopelessly devoted to portraying the life of Grease star Olivia Newton-John as trailer is released for biopic
          

          Suits her! Kaley Cuoco wows in sophisticated cream blazer and smart white shoes for Big Bang Theory panel at PaleyFest
          

          Pregnant Chrissy Teigen bakes cookies with daughter Luna... after lamenting she's 'up 40lbs'
          

          What a glorious feeling! Mel B throws her arms wide in the rainfall as she arrives at America's Got Talent auditions in Los Angeles
          

          'I just didn't love her': Married At First Sight's Ben Jardine reveals he KISSED another woman behind wife Stephanie's back
          

          Ellen Pompeo denies her $20M paycheck had anything to do with Jessica Capshaw and Sarah Drew being axed from Grey's Anatomy
          

          Jacquees gets yanked into custody in Miami Beach after being pulled over by police for driving without seat belt
          

           'It should be all about what I want!' Billie Faiers goes 'bridezilla' on fiancé Greg as she turns her nose up at wedding venues on The Mummy Diaries
          

          Modern Family's Sarah Hyland tweets frustration with doctors 'not listening' to her complaints of chronic pain
          

          Living up to her Reputation! Taylor Swift's latest album is the first to go double platinum in the US in two years
          

          Making his day! Paris Hilton embraces man as she gives him wad of $20 bills after celebrating mom Kathy's birthday over lunch 
          

          Mommy-daughter pampering! Hilaria Baldwin and four-year-old Carmen get their nails done... as Alec heads to lunch with friends
          

          Hometown girl! Kendall Jenner wears dark sunglasses as she emerges from LAX after Paris trip
          

          Earning her fashion stripes! Paris Hilton dazzles as she showcases gym-honed torso in bold multi-coloured suit at boohoo Block Party 
          

          Harley Quinn Smith, 18, flaunts taut tummy at LA bash... as her father Kevin announces he's shed 20lbs since his heart attack
          

          'They're not cheap!': Erika Jayne reveals she spends $40K a month on beauty routine as she admits to having had nose job
          

          Another record-breaker! Black Panther becomes the most tweeted about movie EVER with more than 35million tweets since its release
          

          Think fast! Kanye West could face legal battle after Chinese clothing company files to trademark 'Yeezy'... though he retains the name for shoes
          

          Celine Dion cancels Las Vegas shows to undergo an 'invasive surgical procedure' for hearing condition
          

          Life in the fast lane! Lewis Hamilton snaps selfies with a glamorous blonde as he's mobbed by fans in Melbourne ahead of Australian Grand Prix
          

          'It would be interesting to see how they're doing behind closed doors': Amir Khan and wife Faryal Makhdoom 'in talks for their own fly-on-the-wall series' 
          

          'Get off my social media b***h!': Kim Zolciak curses at daughter Brielle when she steals her phone to claim she's 'the cutest' in the family
          

          'The goal of being a mogul is a real one': Kevin Hart says he's working 'to be a BILLIONAIRE' within seven years
          

          All aboard! Flawless Blanca Blanco shows off her enviable figure as she is overcome with glee riding tiny train during saucy mall outing
          

          For sale! Pregnant Eva Longoria 'puts luxurious six bedroom nine bathroom Hollywood Hills mansion on the market for $3.8 million'
          

          Priscilla Presley is stylish in ankle-length black dress with red scarf as she promotes HBO's new Elvis documentary in NYC
          

          Puppy love! Tilda Swinton and Liev Schreiber cuddle precious pooches at Isle Of Dogs special screening 
          

          Shopping with the stars! Pregnant Kym Johnson stocks up on baby supplies in LA as she expects twins with Shark Tank's Robert Herjavec
          

          Ant McPartlin sets off for rehab after he is charged with drink-driving as Declan Donnelly prepares to host Saturday Night Takeaway ALONE 
          

          EastEnders SPOILER: Kat Slater makes an explosive return to Albert Square as furious residents accuse her of faking her own DEATH
          

          Yolanda Hadid braves NYC winter storm in warm bomber to buy succulents for heartbroken daughter Gigi
          

          Good jeans! Kathy Hilton cuts effortlessly elegant figure in denim as she celebrates 59th birthday with daughters Paris and Nicky  
          

          American Crime Story: Serial killer Andrew Cunanan kills self after murdering Gianni Versace on FX show
          

          EastEnders: Shane Richie 'WILL return to Albert Square' after two year hiatus... as 'Alfie Moon is set to reunite with Kat Slater and shake up Walford'
          

          Did Russell Simmons and Aubrey O'Day have an affair? Danity Kane singer details 'spanx-ripping' romp with high-profile mystery man in a 2012 podcast
          

          'I'm gonna sit next to my mom and help her through it': Comedic actor Adam DeVine reveals he goes full frontal in new film Game Over, Man
          

          Surf's up! Lana Del Rey channels her inner beach girl as she strolls with pals by the ocean blue in cropped skinny jeans in Brazil
          

          WAG do we have here? Cheeky Rebekah Vardy LICKS her close pal Nicola McLean as they put on an animated display at magazine party
          

          Centre (court) of attention! Hunky Roger Federer sheds his tennis whites as he goes shirtless on the beach during idyllic family break in Miami
          

          'One minute we're getting married, the next it's over': Liam Payne finally admits things AREN'T 'fine and dandy' with Cheryl
          

          They're back! Ginnifer Goodwin, Josh Dallas and Jennifer Morrison returning for Once Upon A Time finale in May
          

          'She was the love of my life': Queen Latifah announces her mother Rita Owens has died after long battle with heart condition
          

          There's no raining on their parade!  Liam and Luke Hemsworth ignore the downpour as they go surfing in Malibu
          

          All the colors of the rainbow! Paris Jackson, 19, rocks stripy hoodie and wolf-themed Letterman jacket at Kathy Hilton's 59th birthday party
          

          Can't rain on their parade! Kris Jenner and Scott Disick bundle up in style as they face storm to film Keeping Up With The Kardashians
          

          PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: Timeless beauty Elle Macpherson, 53, flaunts her toned figure in a sexy black swimsuit while on sunny vacation in Sydney
          

          'This is why kids kill themselves': Amber Rose unloads epic clapback rant on trolls who shamed her five-year-old son for liking Taylor Swift
          

          She's just like the rest of us! Selena Gomez does yoga and catches up on her favourite reality TV shows before getting some beauty sleep 
          

          'All of a sudden you're f****** enraged': Krysten Ritter says Me Too movement led her to re-evaluate past experiences she had 'shoved under the rug'
          

          Busty Georgia Kousoulou shows off her surgically enhanced nose as she joins fellow TOWIE stars Amber Turner and Danielle Armstrong at party
          

          The X-Files: Gillian Anderson wraps up role of Dana Scully on season finale with major cliffhanger for Fox Mulder
          

          She's got that glow! Pregnant Tia Mowry covers growing baby bump in sophisticated black sweater and skirt combo as she steps out to lunch
          

          Arrest warrant issued for That's So Raven actor Orlando Brown after he NO SHOWS court date amid battery and resisting arrest charge
          

          Paloma Faith makes a statement in a geometric print jumpsuit as she puts on another eye-catching display onstage in Birmingham
          

          Makeup-free Katie Price shows off her incredibly svelte physique in an ab-baring crop top and skinny jeans
          

          SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE: Grieving Elizabeth Butler-Sloss pays tribute to 'brave, free spirit' film producer son who has died of stomach cancer aged 50
          

          'She's not a blow up doll!' TOWIE's Jon Clark SLAMS exes Lauren Pope and Chloe Crowhurst by comparing them to new girlfriend Daisy Higgs
          

          Ozzy Osbourne, 69, sues AEG for 'forcing' him to play Staples Center in Los Angeles on his No More Tours 2 world tour
          

          Lily Allen flashes her bra in a sheer leopard print top as she returns to the stage... after announcing her first album in FOUR years
          

          Meet Harvey Kinkle! Ross Lynch strolls in Vancouver... before filming Netflix's Sabrina the Teenage Witch reboot
          

          Emma McVey flaunts her incredibly taut midriff just TWO months after giving birth to son with Gaz Beadle... as he prepares to ring in first birthday as a dad
          

          Melanie Sykes, 47, puts on a busty display in an embroidered gown as she poses up a storm with Lisa Snowdon at beauty bash
          

          'Back on set!' Pregnant Eva Longoria shares behind-the-scenes snaps in Miami as she produces soap drama
          

          Trophy wife! Sofia Vergara shows off hourglass figure in strapless red top as she poses next to Stanley Cup with husband Joe Manganiello
          

          'So fake it's hilarious': Britney Spears is slammed for looking heavily airbrushed in new Kenzo advertisements
          

          Millie Mackintosh stuns in a polka dot skirt as she joins Laura Whitmore at  bash... after fans accused ex Pro Green of mocking her fashion line closure
          

          Youthful Monica Bellucci, 53, stuns in a low-cut black dress as she joins stylish Diane Keaton, 72, at awards ceremony in Rome
          

          Bella Hadid exudes glamour as she flashes a glimpse of her sideboob in a plunging ruffled black dress for Dior bash in Shanghai
          

          Sadie Frost says she's starting to feel 'invisible and irrelevant at 52' and laments the rise of cosmetic surgery among celebrities her age
          

          He's bringing freezing back! Health conscious couple Justin Timberlake and wife Jessica Biel 'make frequent trips' to cryotherapy center
          

          Alessandra Ambrosio channels her inner Maverick in Top Gun-style jumpsuit and aviator sunglasses after 'split from fiance' Jamie Mazur
          

          She's not gonna Shake It Off! Taylor Swift asks court to make songwriters who lost copyright suit against her to cough up $72K for her bill
          

          Pregnant Vogue Williams slips into a sports bra and vibrant leggings as she talks followers through her maternity workout at the gym
          

          Glamorous Imogen Thomas and Lizzie Cundy flaunt their toned frames as they join a bevy of bikini-clad beauties at swimwear launch  
          

          'Snow days off!' Karlie Kloss shows impressive strength as she embarks on grueling workout during East Coast blizzard
          

          'He's thriving and well!' Hilary Swank talks taking three year hiatus from acting to take care of her dad after lung transplant
          

          He's her huggy Mike! Thalassitis cradles bikini-clad Megan McKenna's pert posterior as the pair put on a VERY affectionate display in Barbados
          

          A portrait of pregnancy: Khloe Kardashian shares glamorous naked bump shot while modeling lace lingerie... as she's due in just TWO WEEKS
          

          'It hasn't been easy': TOWIE's Chloe Meadows splits from boyfriend Taylor Barnett... as he's 'AXED' from new series
          

          Rose McGowan goes to court in the snow but her felony cocaine possession hearing is postponed due to the DC weather
          

          Breakfast with Grandpa! Natalie Portman brings her dad along on early morning outing with daughter Amalia 
          

          Saara Aalto prepares to represent Finland in upcoming Eurovision as she swaps tips with UK entrant SuRie... after admitting she's 'proud to be a lesbian'
          

          'Healing well': Caitlyn Jenner, 68, gives  update on how her nose is doing after surgery to remove sun damage... while adding her hair looks 'great'
          

          'It's emotional and exciting!': Jennifer Lopez, 48, models new disco curls as she leans on Derek Hough for season two of World Of Dance
          

          'I'll miss him every day': Ricki Lake honors ex-husband who committed suicide as she unveils new documentary Weed the People
          

          The Great British Book Off! Duchess of Cornwall rubs shoulders with Prue Leith as she joins the literary set for glittering reception in London
          

          'Last day, last slay': Demi Moore's daughter Scout Willis flashes her underarm hair as she poses in bikini while vacation winds down
          

          Kate channels Queen in vivid outfit - as she attends a mental health symposium for her penultimate engagement before maternity leave
          

          'So sad!': Demi Lovato is forced to cancel New Jersey concert while Justin Timberlake won't be able to perform in NYC because of snow
          

          'She is using it as a stage prop': Camila Cabello is called out for BIZARRE performance where she fakes playing guitar... but fans come to her defense
          

          Danny Dyer's daughter Dani displays her peachy posterior in sizzling yellow bikini as she hits the beach after premature exit from Survival Of The Fittest
          

          What a brunette bombshell! Glee vet Lea Michele shows off her toned figure in black bikini as she enjoys Hawaiian vacation
          

          Red hot! Vanderpump Rules' Scheana Marie sizzles in push-up bra as she shares racy lingerie snaps to Snapchat
          

          'Does this look like me?': Elizabeth Olsen calls out Empire Magazine for 'Photoshopping' her face on Avengers: Infinity War cover
          

          This blizzard's snow joke! Bella Thorne gets caught up in storm while wearing peep-toe platforms and sheer corset as she promotes film in New York 
          

          Jeff Brazier shows off his muscular physique in NAKED bathroom snap... as he prepares to strip off in The Full Monty
          

          'I had body dysmorphia': Plus-size model Iskra Lawrence admits STARVING herself after being called 'too big' at 16 led to 'blurry eyesight'
          

          Hair today, gone to-Zorro! Antonio Banderas shows off clean-shaved head and EYEBROWS as he promotes his show Genius Picasso
          

          'Always with me': Mark Hamill checks into a London hotel room with artwork in it that he thinks looks like his late Star Wars co-star Carrie Fisher
          

          Declan Donnelly confirms he'll 'honour promise to fans' and host final two shows of Saturday Night Takeaway ALONE
          

          Will Simon stand by troubled Ant McPartlin? Cowell remains silent in face of Britain's Got Talent host's drink-drive drama
          

          First look: Mila Kunis and Kate McKinnon debut trailer for new action comedy The Spy Who Dumped Me as they stop by Ellen DeGeneres' show
          

          Sheer style! Once Upon A Time actress  Jennifer Morrison sports elegant black pencil dress at Power Stylists Dinner in LA
          

          'He keep me motivated': Gemma Atkinson gushes over Strictly beau Gorka Marquez... as she admits she 'loves' that they share same passion for fitness
          

          Beaming Louisa Johnson goes braless under a clingy white bodysuit as she snaps selfies with fans in Manchester
          

          Amber Turner shows off her surgically-enhanced assets in scanty yellow bikini as she larks around during Dubai getaway 
          

          Date night! Kristen Stewart and girlfriend Stella Maxwell look every bit in love... after rumors surface that the model once shared a kiss with Bella Hadid
          

          Lottie Moss goes braless in a black crop top as she enjoys a carefree shopping spree with glamorous mother Inger in Los Angeles
          

          'I miss the baby pink hair': Kim Kardashian shares throwback image with her blush locks before she went back to black
          

          'My boy's like a sloth!': Mila Kunis compares son Dimitri, one, to a 'Neanderthal' and hints daughter Wyatt, three, is 'smarter'
          

          Mixing it up! Armie Hammer goes casual while glamorous wife Elizabeth Chambers sports chic velvet jumpsuit at Power Stylists Dinner
          

          Flare for fashion! Eva Mendes looks ever so stylish in Monse patchwork off-the-shoulder dress as she promotes her new fragrance in Mexico City
          

          She never looked better! Drew Barrymore, 43, glows in new Crocs ad... after revealing she has lost 20lbs from high protein diet
          

          Now that's a room with a PHEW! Bikini-clad Catherine Zeta-Jones admires the view from her hotel balcony in the Dominican Republic
          

          Happier than ever! Kylie Jenner flashes diamond ring as she leaves Stormi at home to enjoy dinner date with beau Travis Scott in West Hollywood
          

          Millie Mackintosh continues her black parade in a fluffy coat and sports leggings... as she mourns the loss of her beloved fashion label
          

          Pete Wicks and girlfriend Shelby Tribble look smitten as they lock arms and coordinate their styles while out filming romantic TOWIE scenes
          

          TOWIE's Georgia Kousoulou proudly displays recent nose job despite her 'initial regrets' as she heads to the gym
          

          WAKE me up, before you go! Jessie Wallace steps out in pyjamas... shortly before returning to EastEnders at her character Kat Slater's funeral
          

          Black-ish star Yara Shahidi stuns in a crop top and patterned skirt combo as she poses up a storm at Hollywood Reporter dinner
          

          Luke Skywalk-opener! Mark Hamill looks dapper in camel coat as he cuts ribbon for new viewing platform in Gibraltar alongside stormtroopers
          

          Goodbye Gigi, hello new me! Newly-single Zayn Malik unveils bleach blond hair as he revives his Pillowtalk video look after shock split from Hadid
          

           Gigi Hadid looks a little downcast while leaving her NYC pad in stylish ensemble... as ex Zayn Malik reveals dramatic new look on set of new music video
          

          Justin Theroux's 'new girlfriend' Petra Collins and Dakota Johnson frolic in a lake alongside transgender model Hari Nef as they star in fun new Gucci campaign
          

          She's Happier! Ed Sheeran greets terminally ill fan, 9, ahead of sold-out Brisbane gig performance
          

          Look away, Selena! Justin Bieber enjoys night out with Abby Champion's Sports Illustrated swimsuit model sister Baskin
          

          Jeremy Clarkson's ex-wife Francis Cain, 56, slips into a black bikini as she joins their injured son Finlo, 21, and toyboy on Barbados break
          

          Natural Beauty! Olivia Culpo looks stunning in a white tube top and tight jeans as she leaves a meeting in Los Angeles
          

          'It's the right thing to do': Piers Morgan backs Dec to pursue TV career without embattled friend Ant McPartlin... and even suggests he finds a new co-host
          

          Queen Maxima of the Netherlands and Queen Rania of Jordan look ready for business in co-ordinating grey looks on a joint engagement in The Hague
          

          Olivia Attwood poses in her underwear as footballer ex Bradley Dack sends her flirty messages a month on from Chris Hughes split
          

          The look of Desiree! Michael Klim and his stunning girlfriend Deravi get cosy on date night at plush IWC Schaffhausen event
          

          This Morning descends into mayhem as 'Easter bunnies' Holly and Phil turn the studio upside down for eggs
          

          Another Eccle-stone lost, James? Stunt's new 'fiancee' Samantha Rowley LOSES £1.5million sapphire from her 'engagement ring'
          

          Busty Iskra Lawrence flashes her sensational curves as she sets pulses racing in array of sexy bikinis during Las Vegas break
          

          Pregnant Jacqueline Jossa covers her blossoming baby bump in denim jacket as she enjoys a family day out with husband Dan Osborne
          

          Hello... is it meat you're looking for? Gemma Collins and Arg enjoy a date at KEBAB house after declaring they are 'TOWIE's greatest love story'
          

          'They could destroy marriages': Seven Year Switch star slams show's editors for 'manipulating' footage to make it look like she was NAKED
          

          Kylie Jenner and boyfriend Travis Scott squeeze in some rare alone time as they enjoy a juice date without their newborn Stormi Webster
          

          Powerful in pink: Kim Kardashian looks like a modern day punk rock prom queen as she poses for artsy magazine ODDA
          

          From SW3 to SEWAGE! Georgia 'Toff' Toffolo is worlds away from Chelsea as she's forced to visit a waste treatment centre by This Morning viewers
          

          'I'm still standing': Courtney Stodden posts defiant make-up free selfie in nude bra and thong
          

          'My body seemed to offend him': This Is Us star Chrissy Metz claims abusive stepfather would beat her and force her to do humiliating weigh-ins
          

          An average mom! Angelina Jolie picks up OATMEAL at Whole Foods in LA with Zahara and Shiloh... as divorce from Brad Pitt is still not finalized
          

          Will Harry and Meghan have a 'mini-moon' in IRELAND? Couple are expected to make trip to Dublin shortly after their wedding at Windsor Castle 
          

          Serene siren! Makeup-free Julianne Hough looks relaxed as she leaves meditation class in Los Angeles
          

          'He's The Governor or the Boss': Ben Mendelsohn gushes over Steven Spielberg after starring in his upcoming film Ready Player One
          

          Kate Upton unveils her risqué evening ensemble in exquisite unseen photos from Tuscany wedding to baseball ace Justin Verlander
          

          EXCLUSIVE: Strictly's Anton du Beke reveals Brendan Cole's shock firing 'is the nature' of the series... as he backs Piers Morgan for the BBC ballroom
          

          'I've never felt so confident': Kerry Katona flashes her toned figure in racy underwear snap... amid heated feud with former bandmate Natasha Hamilton
          

          Emmerdale SPOILER: Ross Barton feared DEAD as he attempts suicide after being humiliated in brutal pub prank
          

          EXCLUSIVE: 'It's a bit of a surprise party for me!' Jake Quickenden admits he still doesn't have a clue about his wedding plans with Danielle Fogarty
          

          'I don't want her spirit to go away': Alexandra Burke tears up as she speaks about her late mother and performs new track dedicated to her memory
          

          'Working so hard' Sophie Kasaei reveals she has fallen off track since two stone weight loss... as she posts VERY saucy swimwear snap for inspiration  
          

          Drew BarryROAR! Hollywood actress is visibly upset as she engages in heated phone conversation on the streets of NY after storming out of lunch
          

          Olivia Buckland grapples with her assets while showing off incredible frame in bright yellow crochet bikini on final day of Barbados break
          

          Ariel Winter struggles to contain her assets in barely-there sports bra as she hits the gym with beau Levi Meaden
          

          Naomi Campbell, 47, shows off her age-defying physique in skimpy mauve bikini as she larks around during idyllic getaway
          

          It's a girl? Michael Bublé and his 'pregnant' wife Luisana Lopilato 'joyously reveal the sex of their third child to loved ones'... after son Noah's cancer battle
          

          Lingerie-flashing Kourtney Kardashian flaunts her rippling abs in bralet with entirely sheer designer skirt as she heads out of pal's birthday bash 
          

          Geordie Shore's Ricci Guarnaccio shows off the results of EYELID surgery and facial lipo after admitting he's ADDICTED to going under the knife 
          

          Makers of Netflix hit Chef's Table are accused of sexism for featuring only ONE female chef in the new series
          

          'I'll look at next year when it comes:' Suranne Jones reveals fans could be in for a VERY long wait before Doctor Foster returns
          

          The Faier-est of them all! Billie Faiers flashes her ample cleavage and tiny waist in sexy reptile print bikini as she soaks up the sun on idyllic holiday
          

          Caroline Flack, 38, helps boyfriend Andrew Brady, 27, move into her London home as they take their romance to the next level after just ONE MONTH of dating
          

          Ant and Dec are SNUBBED at the RTAs they lose in both categories and are no-shows... two days after embattled presenter's drink-driving arrest
          

          Is this the world's biggest superfan? Woman, 25, has met 500 A-list stars including Oprah, Cara Delevingne and Mark Wahlberg (but says Benicio Del Toro was rude)
          

          Ferne McCann slips into her activewear as she animatedly catches up with Love Island's Chris Hughes ahead of Sport Relief 2018 Boat Race
          

          Weinstein's ex wife Georgina Chapman goes for lunch - as producer's company announces it's releasing victims from non-disclosure agreements
          

          Kendall Jenner displays her natural athleticism as she sprints in three-inch heels for latest fashion campaign in Paris
          

          Jeff Goldblum hints that Laura Dern COULD return for Jurassic World... 25-years after their first appearance in film franchise
          

          The Crown as seen by the crowd! Never-before-seen images taken by amateur photographers capture the special relationship between the royal family and the public 
          

          Bake Off fans mock Jamie Laing for 'banging on' about his biscuit heritage... as Prue Leith has to SPIT OUT his loaf cake
          

          Stranger Cha Chings! Netflix child actors 'are set to rake in $150K per episode of sci-fi hit... yet breakout star Millie Bobby Brown, 14, is tipped to make $300K'
          

          Mary J. Blige, 47, is suitably sassy in a curve-hugging leather bustier dress and a snakeskin coat as she attends Jimmy Choo dinner
          

          Is he Thor real? Exhausted Chris Hemsworth naps on a public BENCH while waiting for plane after enjoying fun-filled boys' getaway in Canada
          

          Getting her vitamin sea! Lydia Bright flaunts her incredible figure as she slips into a plunging swimsuit for sizzling throwback snap
          

          'My goodness, he was singing 22': Harry Styles drives fans wild as he belts out ex-girlfriend Taylor Swift's lyrics during Copenhagen tour
          

          'I recently had to get some sun damage removed': Caitlyn Jenner, 68, posts shocking photo with bloody nose as she tells fans to use sunblock
          

          Coy couple? Paris Jackson and Cara Delevingne cuddle in bed while watching lesbian romance drama Carol
          

          'Time to smash MY life!' Georgia May Foote reflects on tough year and to downwards spiral... hot on the heels of split from beau George Alsford
          

          Cash, reign o'er me! Roger Daltrey earns $1 MILLION for private performance at 60th birthday party... after admitting he's going deaf
          

          Amber Davies flashes major underboob in VERY racy selfie... after triumphing over Love Island pal Olivia Attwood in brutal 'best looking' poll
          

          Beret Parisian chic! Busty Chloe Sims puts on an eye-popping display as she slips into a flared jumpsuit while filming TOWIE
          

          Charles and Camilla's plot to slur Diana as a SCHEMING HYSTERIC and how the Prince's mistress orchestrated a secret battle to win hearts and minds
          

          Backside driver! Lauren Goodger flashes a smile as she showcases her VERY peachy derrière whilst perusing cars at Mercedes in Essex
          

          Dakota Fanning commands attention in a sequin mini-dress while Elle is gorgeous in green as they enjoy a sisters' night out at Jimmy Choo dinner
          

          'Even my sisters think I'm crazy!': Kim Kardashian reveals she urgently squeezes in last-minute facials at 10PM as she talks beauty routine
          

          'Drink-drive' TV star Ant McPartlin is holed up undergoing rehab at £1.6m rented home - as friends claim his £60m split from wife Lisa forced him off wagon 
          

          EXCLUSIVE: The Mummy Diaries' Billie Faiers BREAKS DOWN as she submits school application for Nelly... before setting stepdad up on dating site
          

          Pretty as a petal! Naomi Watts is ready for spring as she dons floral print dress on red carpet at Breath premiere
          

          Rebounding already? Newly single Justin Bieber has a smile on his face again as he hits up an LA club with a blonde mystery woman
          

          Nicole Scherzinger looks the picture of elegance as she shows off her svelte figure in a low-cut cream dress at intimate London gig
          

          Beaming Charlize Theron appears fresh-faced as she wraps up in loose-fitting hoodie while taking son Jackson for frozen yogurt in rainy LA 
          

          Busy Philipps steps out in dark sunglasses after being diagnosed with sun-burned EYES after 10 hour photo shoot that left her weeping in pain
          

          As Katie Boyle dies at 91, CHRISTOPHER STEVENS muses on the life of Eurovision Queen who was locked up in a lunatic asylum by her own father
          

          Oui oui mon cheri! Bella Thorne flaunts toned tummy in crop top and black beret as she wraps arm around Patrick Schwarzenegger for press event
          

          'Megan is irrelevant': Pete Wicks is BANNED from seeing ex McKenna as he gushes about new romance with Shelby Tribble... after model twerks on Gatsby
          

          Cheryl seeking 'high-impact TV roles after being released by record label Polydor' as she gets back to work following birth of baby Bear
          

          'She's got no knickers on!' Five Star Hotel fans left in hysterics as Charlotte Dawson flashes her bum and flirts with father-to-be Spencer Matthews
          

          'Zig-a-zig-ah!' Spice Girl Mel B dons bold pink camouflage jacket emblazoned with the iconic lyrics to Wannabe
          

          Smoke gets in your eyes! Paris Jackson, 19, puffs cigarette outside LA vegan restaurant ...despite California's smoking age being 21
          

          'Another day in paradise!' Lea Michele makes a splash in sexy black bathing suit as she hits the beach with mom Edith during getaway to Hawaii
          

          Hell for leather! Drew Barrymore wears edgy motorcycle jacket for an appearance on The Daily Show in New York
          

          Gwyneth Paltrow is beautiful in blue as she leads the glamour at star-studded Jimmy Choo stylists dinner in Los Angeles
          

          'Rose between two thorns!' Piers Morgan poses with GMB co-anchors Susanna Reid and Kate Garraway at the Royal Television Society Awards
          

          He's buff! Shirtless Ryan Phillippe shows off his six-pack and tattoos as he soaks up the sun in Cabo
          

          Lizzie Cundy shows off her figure in a red bodycon dress and matching thigh-high boots as she attends star-studded restaurant bash in style
          

          'I wasn't anticipating this': Megan Fox gets emotional after Tyler Henry warns the star her mother will have to go through a 'transition' at age 60
          

          'Nobody gives a f***:' Cardi B says the #MeToo movement doesn't care about women in hip hop
          

          'You made my baby very happy!': Taylor Swift joins forces with fellow Kim and Kanye enemy Amber Rose as she sends her son gifts
          

          Amicable exes! Kourtney Kardashian is all business in flowy trousers as she and Scott Disick step out in Los Angeles suburbs
          

          ITV viewers shocked as Saturday Night Takeaway is replaced by The Fast and The Furious... following Ant McPartlin's drink-drive arrest
          

          'We call this the Kate Sandwich': Victoria Justice poses in middle of Kate Bosworth and Kate Mara as they all rock floral dresses for fashion event
          

          'Making memories with this one': Smitten Megan McKenna posts loved-up snap with beau Mike Thalassitis as they jet off to Barbados for another holiday
          
'Life will never be the same again': Salisbury poisoning police officer speaks as he leaves hospital as...
Parsons Green tube bomber never saw deradicalisation experts despite being referred to the Prevent...
‘Unwell’ Prince Philip, 96, pulls out of ceremony at Windsor to mark Duke of York taking over his role as...
Now nannying health chiefs say that roads should be NARROWED or even closed to force motorists to walk more
As if by magic! Korean blogger goes viral with blackhead removal hack that uses saran wrap and Vaseline to...
Just ONE PER CENT of salad given away in plastic bags with takeaway curies is eaten because it’s a turn-off...
The latest victim of London's crime epidemic: Student, 23, who was shot AND stabbed to death in an...
Bad lifestyles are to blame for 2,500 cancer cases a week as experts say the disease is not simply caused by...
Half of online GPs are unsafe with doctors handing out addictive painkillers, antibiotics and medication for...
Ant McPartlin's estranged wife Lisa Armstrong looks strained at Britain's Got Talent filming... while the...
Declan Donnelly gave Ant McPartlin 'hugs and reassurances' before he went to rehab after drink-driving...
'You will do Ant proud': Declan Donnelly is showered with support as he prepares to host Saturday Night...
JAN MOIR: Ant ISN'T the real victim whatever his celeb pals say as he nearly ended the lives of an entire...
This bulging lump on a 27-year-old man's hand was triggered by a trip to the dentist and is a sign of a...
'This is your captain twerking!' EasyJet probe airline pilot who filmed his first officer dancing with an...
Facebook could be fined £1BILLION under new data laws to end 'Wild West' on the internet, Culture Secretary...
Mark Zuckerberg says Facebook SHOULD be regulated by the government and reveals company has been developing...
Surge in drug gangs triples number of Albanians in our jails with 726 offenders from the Balkan state behind...
The Easter Beasts: Two MORE cold snaps are on their way with more snow and -9C chills for the holiday...
'Harry and Meghan's guest list is so secret I wasn't even allowed to tell my mum!' Printer, 24, chosen to...
The great royal cook off! Pregnant Kate goes head-to-head with William in the kitchen during her final royal...
'She's really excited': Ellie Goulding 'IS on the guestlist for former flame Prince Harry's wedding to...
'Sorry, your opinions don't pay my mortgage!' Myleene Klass SLAMS cruel trolls for telling her to 'put it...
It's a hard knock life! Rich Kids of Instagram flaunt their first-world 'problems' - from spilling champagne...
Adult Afghan asylum seeker who lied he was a child refugee before raping and murdering EU official's...
EXCLUSIVE: Fury as police officers pose for 'insensitive' selfie at MURDER scene in a shopping mall just...
Patients with multiple sclerosis are set to benefit from a daily tablet that slows the course of the...
The Big Smoke in colour: Fascinating images of London painstakingly converted from black and white show how...
Stand up for Britain – for once! MPs and ministers urge ministers to ‘put the country first’ amid a wave of...
Home Secretary signed off on the deal to give £490million Britain blue passport contract to the French 
What happens when the French go on strike – just as everyone needs their passports? ROBERT HARDMAN visits De...
Shares in UK passport-maker De La Rue plunge after contract to make post-Brexit 'blue' version is awarded to...
EXCLUSIVE: George Of The Jungle's Brendan Fraser, 49, treats himself to vacation in Barbados... after...
Scared to death? Don't panic - horror is good for you as it provides a 'safe channel for our dark side',...
Are YOU cooking it wrong? Experts reveal how to make the perfect mashed potato (and share the mistakes that...
Fashion designer, 35, accused with her partner of killing a French nanny and burning her body ‘told police...
EXCLUSIVE: Bill and Hillary Clinton have 'AT LEAST a one-way open marriage' claims their veteran pollster -...
PIERS MORGAN: Trump versus Biden is a fight I’d pay to watch, especially in the 2020 election - but be...
Trump says he could take 'Crazy Joe Biden' in a fight - tweeting that the former vice president would 'go...
Sex and the pity: Kim Cattrall posts dismissive tweet about Cynthia Nixon running for governor of New York
'It's a CYCLE lane!': Irate cyclist 'takes a chunk' out of a BMW after city centre stand-off with driver who...
Austin serial bomber was part of a Christian survivalist group that spoke of weapons and dangerous chemicals...
A week in the life of America's deadliest mass murderer: Mandalay Bay footage shows a VERY mundane Stephen...
EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE: The zipless dress once considered 'risque'... that has proved a hit thanks to the Duchess of Cambridge
TOM UTLEY: At last, a genuine medical condition that explains why I never listen to a word my wife says
Press the panic button... Lucifer's legged it: The Mail's theatre critic is directing his village's Easter play. So why has the Devil disappeared and did the Bible really feature green underpants