A statement from the Ol Pejeta Conservancy where Sudan lived said the 45-year-old rhino, who was suffering from muscle and bone deterioration and extensive skin wounds, was euthanised on Monday after his condition “worsened significantly”, leaving him unable to stand. 
The International Union for Conservation of Nature says the Western Black Rhino (pictured) is extinct and two other species of rhino are "possibly" extinct.
The Southern White Rhino of central Africa is now "possibly extinct" in the wild and firmly placed on the Red List of Threatened Species.
The Blessed Poison Frog (Ranitomeya benedicta) is currently listed as Vulnerable and the Summers' Poison Frog (pictured) (Ranitomeya summersi) is Endangered.
The current Red List reveals that an alarming 40% of Madagascar’s terrestrial reptiles are threatened. The 22 Madagascan species currently identified as Critically Endangered, which include chameleons, geckoes, skinks and snakes, are now a conservation challenge. 

Encouragingly, there are new conservation areas being designated in Madagascar that will help conserve a significant proportion of Critically Endangered species, such as Tarzan’s Chameleon (Calumma tarzan) (pictured), the Bizarre-nosed Chameleon (Calumma hafahafa) and the Limbless Skink (Paracontias fasika).
Giant Manta Ray (Manta birostris), the largest species of rays, is also on the conservation group's Red List of Threatened Species and classed as "vulnerable".
The majority of endemic flowering plants in the granitic Seychelles islands have been assessed and current studies show that of the 79 endemic species, 77% are at risk of extinction. Most of these are new assessments but one species, the infamous Coco de Mer (Lodoicea maldivica) has been uplisted from Vulnerable to Endangered. Known for its supposed aphrodisiac properties, the Coco de Mer faces threats from fires and illegal harvesting of its kernels.
The Chinese Water Fir (Glyptostrobus pensilis), which was formerly widespread throughout China and Viet Nam, has been upgraded from Endangered to Critically Endangered.
The Przewalski's Horse (Equus ferus) is another success story, improving its status from Critically Endangered to Endangered.
“He was a great ambassador for his species and will be remembered for the work he did to raise awareness globally of the plight facing not only rhinos, but also the many thousands of other species facing extinction as a result of unsustainable human activity,” said the conservancy's CEO Richard Vigne. 
Sudan was something of a celebrity in his lifetime and attracted thousands of visitors to Dver Kralove and Ol Peteja. 
Advertising helps fund our journalism and keep it truly independent. It helps to build our international editorial team, from war correspondents to investigative reporters, commentators to critics.
If you are Private Browsing in Firefox, "Tracking Protection" may cause the adblock notice to show. It can be temporarily disabled by clicking the "shield" icon in the address bar.
Then click the big power button to whitelist the current web site, and its state will be remembered next time you visit the web site.