This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2018 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.
Preliminary results in Russia's presidential election show Putin winning with more than 70 percent of the vote; Amy Kellogg reports live from Moscow.
Backlash grew around the world Sunday after Russian President Vladimir Putin claimed a huge victory in his country's presidential election.
Edward Snowden, the former CIA contractor who gained infamy for leaking hundreds of thousands of classified documents from the National Security Agency in 2013, posted security camera footage of what looked like ballot stuffing. Snowden claimed it was part of "an effort to steal the influence of 140+ million people."
Garry Kasparov, the former world chess champion and Human Rights Foundation chairman, said Sunday on ABC News' "This Week" to "stop calling it elections. It's a charade. The only vote that matters in a dictatorship like Russia is Putin's vote."
Kasparov followed-up on Twitter, writing that "Every free world leader who congratulates Putin on his 'election' is complicit in his global war on democracy. They undermine their own status as freely elected leaders."
Every free world leader who congratulates Putin on his "election" is complicit in his global war on democracy. They undermine their own status as freely elected leaders.
House Intelligence Committee Ranking Member Adam Schiff, D-Calif., also criticized Putin's victory, calling it "easy to get 73 [percent] of the vote when you bar your 'opponents' from running."
It’s easy to get 73% of the vote when you bar your "opponents" from running. After extolling life tenure for China’s Xi, will our President now congratulate Putin on his successful elimination of democratic opposition?
"That #Putin had to work so hard to drive voter turnout shows the Russian people know his claim to power is a sham," McCain tweeted. "The US stands with all Russians yearning for freedom. #RussiaElections2018."
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2018 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes.