
        The military prosecution has stated that it had no objection to an open-door trial, but the court says experience proves minors benefit from closed proceedings
    
Palestinian teenager Ahed Tamimi in a courtroom at the Ofer military prison near Jerusalem, February 13, 2018.

                                                                                                        Despite initial ban, Israeli army has no objection to trying Palestinian teen Tamimi in open court
                                                            

                                                                                                        Sarah Silverman slammed after calling for Palestinian teen Ahed Tamimi’s release
                                                            

                                                                                                        Ahed Tamimi is The Palestinian Bar Refaeli
                                                            
In explaining the appeals court’s decision, Col. Netanel Benishu acknowledged that “The appellant was identified by name when the documentation of the acts that led to her arrest were publicized, and after this her detention was documented and publicized widely by security officials One cannot deny the exceptional public interest that accompanies the appellant’s judicial proceedings.”
                                                    
Nevertheless, he said, “the accumulated experience over the eight years that the juvenile military court has existed has taught us that giving the minor and his family a real chance to make their arguments in an intimate framework of proceedings that aren’t open to the general public is a basic component of conducting fair and just proceedings. In this, the judicial process in the military courts isn’t any different than the process before a civilian court.
                                                    
“Therefore, even if the process before a military juvenile court is slightly different than before a civilian court I also agree that closing the proceedings in the case of minor defendants must be the rule and it usually expresses the best interests of the minor.”
                                                    
He added that Tamimi’s request was denied in the absence of authority but that the defense can ask for reconsideration.
                                                    

                                                                                                                                                                                

                                    Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in
                                    accordance with site policy.
                                

									If you would like to be notified when your comment is published,
									please fill in your email address in the form below.
								
Arab Citizens Tried to Buy Land in This Israeli Town. The Mayor Halted the Sale to Uphold Its 'Jewish-Zionist Nature' 

				Iran, Syria and Saudi Arabia: Top Three Stunning Admissions From the Top U.S. General in the Middle East 
			

										A Jew, an Early Christian and a Roman Meet in Archaeological Park to Be Built on Evacuated Prison 
			

										'Man, She's Pretty': Behind Syrian Rebels' Gruesome Murder of a Female Kurdish Fighter 
			
Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.