
          The Cambridge Analytica Whistleblower Said He Wanted To Create “The NSA’s Wet Dream”
        

          
          Christopher Wylie, the whistleblower who helped found Cambridge Analytica, recently came clean about his role in creating the controversial data mining outfit. BuzzFeed News has obtained communications that show what he was thinking when he went about founding what would become Cambridge Analytica and why being “evil pays more.”
        
That was October 2013, and Wylie, in his early twenties, was gathering massive amounts of personal data as research director for SCL Group, a contractor that did military and political campaign work. He was also trying to raise money for his new startup concept — then called Arg.us — that would ingest users' social media activity and use it to build “psychographic” profiles that marketers could use to identify our personalities and, possibly, influence our behavior.
An investigation by BuzzFeed News suggests some answers to those questions. For one thing, the scale and ambition of Wylie and his future colleagues’ data gathering was no facade: Wylie was planning to build a company that could take what millions of people share online every day — such as likes or status updates on Facebook — and turn it into actionable data that could be sold to whoever was willing to pay. It also reveals that before Wylie blew the whistle, he was well aware how behavioral micro-targeting could be applied to business and politics — and how it might be abused.
According to documents obtained by BuzzFeed News and interviews with people who knew Wylie, the young data scientist was enthralled by the idea of a tool that years later would be used to create detailed psychological profiles of the US electorate ahead of the 2016 presidential election. These documents, provided by three sources who verified their identities and connections to Wylie, but declined to be named, include presentation slides, online correspondence, employment contracts, and work prospectuses.
Wylie responded to questions through his lawyer, Tamsin Allen, who noted that her client "has made several flippant and stupid comments in text messages and instant messages, which he regrets."
In October 2013, five years before he came clean on Cambridge Analytica, the voter-profiling company he helped create, Wylie was pitching what may have been its sister company. At the time, Wylie was employed by SCL Group, where he oversaw the gathering and analysis of large bundles of personal data. While Wylie was young, he had already volunteered for Barack Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign and worked on Canadian elections, allowing him to see the foundation for something far more significant.
Former Donald Trump adviser Steve Bannon gives a press conference during the French far-right National Front Party annual congress March 10 at the Grand Palais in Lille, France.
In one exchange from the documents obtained by BuzzFeed News, Wylie noted that it was relatively easy to determine someone's psychological disposition simply by analyzing a few weeks of their internet browsing. Add their social media activity to the mix, he theorized, and you could probably anticipate how someone might behave in various scenarios. "You could combine all their data exhaust to create a super model of behaviour and apply hyper-targeting compliance gaining techniques to make people buy stuff," he explained to a source.
As a research director at SCL’s elections division, Wylie had few illusions about the kind of work his firm did. Chatting with a friend in late 2013, he readily volunteered that the company aided coups and handled “government dirty work,” alluding to work in Trinidad and Tobago. In that country, Wylie claimed to have data that was so granular that he could tell what kind of pornographic video a user was watching. “This one user was watching girls fucking plantains and then started looking up plantain recipes," he claimed.

        "This one user was watching girls fucking plantains and then started looking up plantain recipes."
      
In late 2013, Wylie, as an SCL employee, met then–Breitbart News leader Steve Bannon who in turn introduced him to hedge fund magnate Robert Mercer. In Mercer and his daughter Rebekah, Wylie saw potentially powerful backers, ones that might even fund his own startup. To one person, he mentioned the possibility of the Mercers becoming his first client if he were ever able to separate himself from SCL and start his own venture. But that was tricky. He had a contract with SCL and Mercer was already paying his employer.
Mercer did not respond to a request for comment. A source familiar with the matter said that the relationship was purely between Mercer and Cambridge Analytica, and that there was no arrangement between Renaissance Technologies, the hedge fund Mercer ran until last year, and the data firm. Late 2013 communications from Wylie seen by BuzzFeed News, however, refer to an investment from Renaissance as being “on track.” Wylie's attorney told BuzzFeed News her client does not recall speaking to any of the funders of CA about this.
Robert Mercer and Rebekah Mercer at the 2017 Time 100 Gala at Jazz at Lincoln Center on April 25, 2017, in New York City.
Wylie seemed unfazed by any potential legal tie-ups that came with his SCL employment. Instead, he soldiered on, bragging to friends about gaining access to a set of unknown Facebook data that would significantly bolster his research. "Everything is 150% above board and legal and ethical," Wylie explained in early 2014.
“The American consumer market has never been more fragmented,” read one slide. Another showed the company’s first line of business was an estimated $5.2 billion opportunity in politics, complete with logos of the GOP elephant and Democratic donkey.
Wylie's brief stint trying to launch a startup was largely defined by his quest to fund his endeavor. And based on documents, he appeared to have been largely agnostic about where that funding would come from. Around the time he started thinking about starting the company, he was already discussing with friends his close connections to wealthy Russians. In one correspondence, he said he was worried about taking their money because they lacked technological expertise but found the idea of working for a “crazy evil Russian” quite intriguing.
Recently, Wylie has seemingly had a change of heart. In public interviews since identifying himself last week, he criticized Kogan, who he said flew back and forth between Russia and did research at a St. Petersburg university. Wylie also spoke about Cambridge Analytica’s contact with Russia’s second-largest oil company, Lukoil, over some questionable project proposals.
One San Francisco–based investor who spoke to Wylie about his startup in January 2014, but declined to invest, showed BuzzFeed News an email that he received about the startup. That note claimed Wylie's technology had been tested on political clients and could profile someone’s real-world personality and motivations based on what they did online.

        “It was like, ‘Hey we have a whole bunch of data on a whole bunch of people, and we don’t have any problems showing you!’" 
      
One source, who attended the same Victoria, California, high school as Wylie and ended up doing graphic design work for Eunoia in 2014 and 2015, recalled meeting with Wylie and Jucikas on several occasions. At one dinner meeting in London, Jucikas brought out his computer to show a rough mockup of what he, Wylie, and Clickard had been building. According to the source, it showed a map of the US with pinpoints that, when clicked, would surface personal data on an individual, including location, political leanings, and age. The source was unclear where the data that fed that tool came from.
“What really surprised me with all this is how nonchalant they were about this,” the source said, noting that Eunoia’s founders spoke openly about their political and elections work. “It was like, ‘Hey we have a whole bunch of data on a whole bunch of people, and we don’t have any problems showing you!’ What are the ethical questions about this?”
Whatever information Wylie had access to, his hope was to create the world’s largest information database on people. “In theory we could change the world in a positive way,” he wrote in one correspondence. “We would create one of the world's largest population datasets that could massively revolutionise all kinds of scientific research.”
Wylie, who left SCL and Cambridge in the summer of 2014, also bragged to associates about meetings he had with potential corporate clients, including Walmart, Monsanto, the American Petroleum Institute, Burberry, DKNY, Ford, and Virgin. Wylie even claimed he'd been invited to a meeting with the Department of Defense’s Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or DARPA.
Another document obtained by BuzzFeed News details Eunoia’s "microtargeting" products, many of them explicitly tailored for use in elections. "Standard practice in political campaigns currently targets demographic factors, such as gender, age, region, and ethnic background," it reads. "However, we feel that demographics are too superficial because true diversity goes beyond what we look like. We don't believe in a hyphenated America."
The document goes on to list a dozen products and services, among them "psychographic microtargeting," "addressable TV microtargeting," "multi-agent system voter behavior simulation," and "message testing & development."
Ken Strasma, a former Obama campaign staffer, confirmed in an interview with BuzzFeed News that he had been advising Wylie and Eunoia, noting that he thought Wylie’s idea was mainly going to be applied to “predictive analytics for fashion.”
“Their focus was on psychographics, but I don’t think they got to a point where they actually identified data assets,” he said, adding that he did not think they were using any Facebook data sets. “I know they talked with us about how to get access to voter data…and I know they had talked about [the] concept of using Facebook apps to collect data.”
While a source called Arg.us/Eunoia a precursor to Cambridge Analytica, Allen maintained that they were completely separate entities and that her client eventually left his position because of a "toxic work environment." "Mr Wylie has not worked for any CA clients, Republicans or alt-right projects since leaving CA," she said in an email.
Before and after he left SCL and Cambridge Analytica in late June 2014, Wylie seemed to have few qualms about the Republican party in messages views by BuzzFeed News. In one, he mentioned how “hipster liberal vegetarian european gays” are taking over the Republican Party. Another, sent following the US midterm elections in 2014, included a link to an article about Republicans winning eight out of nine key Senate races, alluding to the idea that SCL and Cambridge Analytica helped these clients.
Still, Wylie wasn’t wedded to working for one party or ideology. According to one source, he claimed he was in conversations with Hillary Clinton’s campaign and held out hope that she would possibly hire his startup. That never happened.
On Tuesday, at the Frontline Club, Wylie was praised for coming forward with the information and revealing to the world what he had done. One crowd member, however, didn’t seem too pleased. Recalling whistleblowers like Daniel Ellsberg, Edward Snowden, and Chelsea Manning, who risked imprisonment and severe punishment for coming forward with important, confidential information, she asked a question that seemed to bury deep into Wylie’s soul: “You came from the dark side. How are you going to redeem yourself?”
“I’m not saying that I am doing good for the world, yet,” he said. “I’m saying I’m taking the first step to own up to something that I had a really fundamental role on.”
Christopher Wylie attended high school in Victoria, California. An earlier version of this story misstated the school's location.

      Ryan Mac is a senior technology reporter for BuzzFeed News and is based in San Francisco. He reports on the intersection of money, technology and power.
    

        
          You're almost there! Check your inbox and confirm your subscription now!
        
      