Following backlash, Trayon White Sr. apologizes for saying ‘Rothschilds’ created snowstorm to make money, says he didn't mean to be anti-Semitic
A councilman in Washington DC suggested on Facebook that rich Jews who control the weather caused an unexpected snowstorm.

Trayon White Sr., a Democrat representing the district’s 8th Ward, posted a video early Friday morning in which he accused “the Rothschilds” of controlling the climate to make money — an anti-Semitic conspiracy theory. He later removed the video.
							
The Rothschilds are a well-known wealthy European Jewish dynasty descended from a Jewish banker originally from Germany. Anti-Semitic conspiracy theories over many decades have charged that the Rothschild family and other wealthy Jews have interceded in world events for their financial gain.
In the video, White said: “Man, it just started snowing out of nowhere this morning, man. Y’all better pay attention to this climate control, man, this climate manipulation. And DC keep talking about, ‘We a resilient city.’ And that’s a model based off the Rothschilds controlling the climate to create natural disasters they can pay for to own the cities, man. Be careful.”
Internet conspiracy theorists have stated the belief that the Rockefeller Foundation’s Resilient Cities initiative, which provides grants to cities, including Washington, to address environmental and economic problems, is part of a plot to control and reduce the population of North America. And some conspiracy theorists also think the Rothschilds, working together with the Rockefellers, have technology to control the weather.
White told The Washington Post, which called him for comment, that the video “says what it says” and expressed surprise that his remarks were considered anti-Semitic. He sent an apology to the newspaper for the post four hours after it appeared online via text message.
“I work hard every day to combat racism and prejudices of all kinds. I want to apologize to the Jewish Community and anyone I have offended,” he said in the text. “The Jewish community have been allies with me in my journey to help people. I did not intend to be anti-Semitic, and I see I should not have said that after learning from my colleagues.”
White said that the Jews United for Justice, a group that advocates for progressive causes and which endorsed him in 2016, was “helping me to understand the history of comments made against Jews and I am committed to figuring out ways continue to be allies with them and others.”
A City Council colleague, Brianne Nadeau, a Democrat who is Jewish and represents the district’s diverse 1st Ward, said in a Facebook post that White had reached out to her to apologize and “expressed his sincere regret, I believe, for having offended members of the Jewish community.”
“I believe he is being truthful when he says he didn’t realize what his statement implied,” Nadeau added.
She noted that elected officials need to focus on eradicating all hate and bigotry and “focus on lifting each other up rather than tearing one another down.”
“I understand how important it is to build bridges between our marginalized communities. My experiences of persecution as a Jew, and the experiences of my ancestors, are at the core of what drives me to serve the community,” Nadeau said. “My Jewish values tell me to help those less fortunate than I am, to work to repair the world and to do something when I see injustice. My Jewish values also teach me forgiveness.”
Announcement about 2007’s ‘Operation Orchard' sure to remind Iran what happened to the last country with atomic ambitions, though the real reason to divulge now may be more humdrum
Israel only wised up to Damascus's bid for nukes after it found Gadhafi had managed to run a similar program covertly. Armed with the facts, Olmert had to decide whether to strike
Municipality says Nir Barkat will announce his decision on Thursday after passing embattled city budget
British firm linked to Trump campaign suspends chief executive as lawmakers demand answers from social media giant over 'catastrophic' breach of user data
Kornel Morawiecki asserts Jews went themselves because they were told that they would not have to deal with 'those nasty Poles' during Holocaust
PM vows to cut through bureaucracy to ensure necessary construction at site approved in time for planned May 14 opening
'Yes, let’s do it,' PM replied in 2013 after US secretary of state offered to broker fresh talks, Dan Shapiro recalls. Later, it all went sour
Ramallah official admits move would likely worsen humanitarian situation in Strip; 'We hope Hamas will wake up'
German chancellor says Trump walking away from accord would split the West, pitting US and Israel against Germany, France, and UK, along with Russia, China, and Iran
Watchdog group says Yitzhak Yosef's 'racially charged comment' in weekly sermon is 'utterly unacceptable'
As the trailblazing woman at most of her jobs, Susan Goldberg knows discrimination. That's why she faces the magazine's past racism head on while vowing not to repeat old mistakes
Military police launch investigation into apparent accidental shooting; gunshot reportedly self-inflicted 
Prof. David Newman marks 20 years since the establishment of the Department of Politics and Government at Ben-Gurion University 
The gun control rally is so important that I, a rabbi, am going to blatantly disrupt God’s holy Sabbath
Jewish groups are most certainly not downplaying the threat, they just disagree on where it's coming from
The 2019 budget has only winners. As always, losses are shared across the board -- and that's a lurking threat
Shopping for Passover, I realize I've become my mother... and my grandmother; then I go look for the gefilte fish
The country needs big change, including direct elections, term limits and curbs on hoarding ministerial portfolios
Israelis and Palestinians urged US policymakers to set up a global fund to support the many co-existence efforts
To Deborah Klapper: A yeshiva is no place for mixed-gender religious leadership, pluralism, or any contemporary value
When an efficient matchmaker stops getting to know her clients and just mixes and matches their names