Penny Mordaunt, the International Development Secretary, has launched an £11 million fund to try and find innovative ways to deliver healthcare in war zones. Medical supplies have become a target  in what she described as a  "blatant breach of international humanitarian law".  
David Nott revealed his fears that a hack on his computer led to the bombing of a Syrian hospital suspected to have been carried out by Russian warplanes.
It is hoped that the Dfid fund could provide solutions such as a secure way to deliver instructions into war zones with a lower risk of being hacked, and new tools to make complex medical tasks easier for those with less training.  
Penny Mordaunt, the International Development Secretary, said: “The Asad regime and its backers have displayed an unparalleled level of callousness and barbarity by deliberately targeting schools and hospitals. These attacks, along with restrictions on food and medical supplies, are a blatant breach of international humanitarian law.
“The UK government continues call on all parties to this horrific conflict to protect civilians and we will continue to deliver support to those that need it most.
“Brave aid workers, including the medical staff targeted after a suspected computer hack, are working in horrific conditions to save people’s lives. The aid sector needs to innovate if it is to continue delivering life-saving assistance in the most difficult situations imaginable.  
“That’s why last month we launched a new fund with USAID to find new technology solutions and innovations to save lives in conflict zones. I urge any business or group with a bold idea to apply."
The operation was broadcast by the BBC and just weeks later the a "bunker buster" bomb was dropped on the exact co-ordinates of the operating theatre at the M10 hospital in Aleppo, leading Mr Nott to believe that the location had been hacked from his computer or phone. 
David Carroll, CEO of security firm XQ Cyber, said  there is "every chance that the consultant was identified and singled out by the hacker as a result of the BBC article". 
The deliberate targeting of doctors and aid workers has become a major concern for global health security and in Syria alone there have been an estimated that 450 attacks on hospitals.  
Zaher Sahloul, who was the President of the Syrian American Medical Society (SAMS) which was running the M10 hospital when it was bombed and is now a senior advisor to UOSSM, said there was concerns of doctors being hacked or their social media monitored.  
"This is one of the reasons that before we put any pictures on social media we ask the permission of the doctors, whether they are comfortable with it," he said.  
"We know for sure that this information is tracked by Governments, agents of the Government and they use it to bomb.
"I swear that every time I put up a picture, especially from Aleppo, that this hospital is bombed, that it is bombed the next day. 
"I also believe that they are some people that are tracking those doctors who are active. They track the information that we send and and use it to send a message or determine the location of places that are bombed."
It will provide funding to solutions to problems in developing health supplies and services,  life saving information, energy and sanitation. 
Holland and Barrett remove krill products from shelves after warning they were stealing food from penguins
Donald Trump vows Joe Biden would 'go down hard, crying all the way' after 'threat' to beat up US president
Russia's spy network at risk as EU agrees 'highly likely' country carried out Salisbury nerve agent attack
Martin Luther King by Trevor McDonald review: a fine report on the positive changes in racial equality that King pioneered
Police apologise after officers post selfie from scene of fatal stabbing, saying it was 'insensitive'
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.