The UK has agreed to a contentious "backstop solution"
    which would keep Northern Ireland signed up to EU rules in
    order to avoid a hard border with the Irish Republic.
Britain will stay in the single market and customs
    union for 20 months after it leaves the EU in March
    2019.
Britain will be able to sign new free trade deals
    during the transition — but they won't come into effect
    until after the period has ended. 

  LONDON — The United Kingdom and European Union have reached a
  political agreement on the terms of a post-Brexit transition
  deal after the UK agreed to a "backstop solution" which
  would keep Northern Ireland signed up to EU rules after Brexit.


  British and EU negotiators agreed on Monday morning the broad
  terms of a 20-month transition phase which will take effect when
  Britain leaves the bloc in March 2019.


  "We have reached an agreement on the transition period," the EU's
  chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier told a press conference at
  lunchtime on Monday.


  Under the terms of the deal, Britain will remain in the single
  market and customs union until the end of 2020. It will also
  remain under the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice,
  meaning it must continue abiding by all EU rules.


  "The UK will no longer participate in EU decision-making
  processes. It will preserve all the benefits and advantages of
  the single market, customs union and of European policy, and will
  be required to respect EU rules," Barnier added.


  The agreement was reached after the UK agreed to most of the
  terms of the European Commission's draft Withdrawal Agreement,
  which sets out the terms of Britain's divorce from the EU.


  The document, originally published in February, included a
  suggestion that Northern Ireland could stay in the customs union
  and remain aligned with single market rules, in order to avoid
  physical infrastructure on the border between north and south
  Ireland.


  The EU proposed that as the "backstop" option which would not
  take effect unless the UK government fails to produce an
  alternative solution for avoiding a hard border.


  The UK had initially resisted legally agreeing to that backstop
  solution — called "Option C" — but an updated version of the
  draft legal text for the Withdrawal Agreement published on Monday
  showed the UK has now agreed to it.

"We agreed today that backstop solution must form part of
  legal text of withdrawal agreement... the backstop will apply
  until another solution is found," Barnier said.

  Brexit secretary David Davis Davis said the agreement showed
  the UK had "taken another significant step."


  "Our teams have worked hard and at pace to secure the terms of a
  time-limited implementation period that gives a certainty to
  businesses and citizens," he said.


  He confirmed the UK will be able to sign new trade deals
  during the transition phase, which would come into force when
  that period ends.


  EU leaders are expected to approve the transition deal and pass
  it to the European Parliament for legal approval at a European
  Council summit in Brussels later this week. 
