The documents mark the first public release of details about the covert funds, which are used for intelligence gathering and other activities deemed to be in the national interest.
The move follows a ruling by the Supreme Court in January ordering the state to disclose documents related to the funds. The top court limited the disclosure to those that do not carry information on how and for whom the funds were used.
The state disclosed documents that showed a total of ¥2.68 billion ($25.1 million) being spent under three chief Cabinet secretaries — ¥1.1 billion between November 2005 and September 2006 under Shinzo Abe, ¥250 million in September 2009 under Takeo Kawamura and ¥1.33 billion between January and December 2013 under Yoshihide Suga.
Kobe Gakuin University Professor Hiroshi Kamiwaki, one of the plaintiffs who sought the disclosure, said he is “appalled” to learn that most of the funds could be spent freely by chief Cabinet secretaries and called on boosting “the degree of transparency.”
Suga, the current chief Cabinet secretary, told a news conference Tuesday, “It is a matter of course that we follow a ruling and respond appropriately. We will continue the appropriate execution thoroughly so that we do not invite distrust among the public.”
The government maintains that it is inappropriate to reveal how the funds are spent for the sake of state secrecy, Suga said.
Nagoya University and Gifu University said Thursday they will consider merging their operations amid a fall in the student population, to create what could be the first national university opera...
The ruling Liberal Democratic Party on Thursday decided to pursue a plan proposed by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to amend Article 9 of the nation's war-renouncing Constitution and add an explicit ...
Japan's government plans to require operators of new casinos to report on customers who exchanged chips and cash worth ¥1 million ($9,500) or more as part of anti-money laundering measu...
Kamiwaki and others filed lawsuits with the Osaka District Court between 2007 and 2013 to demand disclosures regarding the spending under the three chief Cabinet secretaries of administrations led by the Liberal Democratic Party.
The lawsuit centered on whether the use of the funds can be kept secret if it is determined that disclosures about their use would interfere with state operations.
The funds, formally known as Cabinet Secretariat compensation expenses, can be used flexibly, such as for intelligence operations or for planning key national policies.
In the past, reports have surfaced that the funds have been used for political maneuvering to counter opposition parties or for overseas trips by lawmakers.
Each year, the government budgets some ¥1.4 billion as secret funds, including money spent by the Cabinet Secretariat’s intelligence investigation office.
Top diplomats from Japan and Russia meet in Tokyo, keen on promoting joint economic projects on disputed islands