http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-43494337?ocid=socialflow_facebook&#38;amp;ns_mchannel=social&#38;amp;ns_campaign=bbcnews&#38;amp;ns_source=facebook
Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has admitted that the social network "made mistakes" that led to millions of Facebook users having their data exploited by a political consultancy.
In a later interview with CNN he said he was "really sorry", and pledged to take action against "rogue apps".
In his statement posted on Facebook, he promised to make it far harder for apps to "harvest" user information.
"We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can't then we don't deserve to serve you," Mr Zuckerberg said.
investigate all Facebook apps that had access to large amounts of information before the platform was changed "to dramatically reduce data access" in 2014
ban developers that had misused personally identifiable information, and "tell everyone affected by those apps"
remove developers' access to a user's data if the user hadn't activated the developer's app for three months
reduce the data that users give an app when they sign in to just name, profile photo, and email address
require developers to obtain approval and also sign a contract in order to ask anyone for access to their posts or other private data
Mr Zuckerberg added: "While this specific issue involving Cambridge Analytica should no longer happen with new apps today, that doesn't change what happened in the past.
"We will learn from this experience to secure our platform further and make our community safer for everyone going forward."
I read one thing loud and clear from Mr Zuckerberg's initial statement: Facebook is not prepared to take the blame for what has happened. 
Contrition has never been Mr Zuckerberg's strong point, and the statement, days in the making, was no different.  
No apology to users, investors or staff over how this incident was allowed to happen by the data policies in place at the time. 
No explanation as to why, after learning its data was being abused like this in 2014, it opted to give the companies a telling off instead of banning them outright.  
No reasoning as to why Facebook failed to inform users their data may have been affected. Technically, it still hasn't. 
Mr Zuckerberg's words were not an explanation, but a legal and political defence. This company knows it is heading into battle on multiple fronts. 
In 2014, Facebook invited users to find out their personality type via a quiz developed by Cambridge University researcher Dr Aleksandr Kogan called This is Your Digital Life. 
About 270,000 users' data was collected, but the app also collected some public data from users' friends.
Facebook has since changed the amount of data developers can gather in this way, but a whistleblower, Christopher Wylie, says the data of about 50 million people was harvested for Cambridge Analytica before the rules on user consent were tightened up. 
Mr Wylie claims the data was sold to Cambridge Analytica - which has no connection with Cambridge University - which then used it to psychologically profile people and deliver pro-Trump material to them.
"We did all the research, all the data, all the analytics, all the targeting, we ran all the digital campaign, the television campaign and our data informed all the strategy," he added. 
Dr Kogan has said he was told by Cambridge Analytica everything they had done was legal, and that he was being made a "scapegoat" by the firm and Facebook.
Facebook says users' data was obtained legitimately but Cambridge Analytica failed to delete it when told to do so.
It suspended Mr Nix following his comments which appeared to suggest tactics his company could use to discredit politicians online.
Have you deleted your Facebook account? Or have you deleted different social media accounts? Please email 
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways: 
If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can
                        contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as
                        you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published.
                        When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others,
                        take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.