
              White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders speaks during the daily press briefing in the Brady press briefing room at the White House, in Washington, Tuesday, March 20, 2018. (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta)
            

              Russian President Vladimir Putin gestures as he speaks during a meeting with opposition candidates who ran against him in yesterday's presidential election, Boris Titov, Maxim Suraykin, Ksenia Sobchak, Vladimir Zhirinivsky, Pavel Grudinin, Sergei Baburin and Grigory Yavlinsky, at the Kremlin in Moscow, Russia, Monday, March 19, 2018. Putin, who won a landslide victory in Sunday's vote, said during a Kremlin meeting with seven other candidates who challenged him, that the focus should now be on raising living standards and solving other domestic issues. (Yuri Kadobnov/Pool Photo via AP)
            

              President Donald Trump speaks about his plan to combat opioid drug addiction at Manchester Community College, Monday, March 19, 2018, in Manchester, N.H., even as more Republicans are telling Trump in ever blunter terms to lay off his escalating criticism of special counsel Robert Mueller and his Russia probe. But party leaders are taking no action to protect Mueller from possibly being fired, embracing a familiar strategy with the president _ simply waiting out the storm. (AP Photo/Elise Amendola)
            

              FILE - In this file photo taken on Friday, July 7, 2017, U.S. President Donald Trump, right, meets with Russian President Vladimir Putin at the G-20 Summit in Hamburg, Germany. The Kremlin said Trump called Putin to congratulate him on re-election, and White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders confirmed that Trump spoke with Putin Tuesday March 20, 2018. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
            

              Russian President Vladimir Putin, left, greets Ksenia Sobchak, right, during his meeting with opposition candidates who ran against him in Sunday's presidential election, Boris Titov, Sergei Baburin, Maxim Suraykin, Vladimir Zhirinivsky, Pavel Grudinin, and Grigory Yavlinsky, at the Kremlin in Moscow, Russia, Monday, March 19, 2018. Putin, who won a landslide victory in Sunday's vote, said during a Kremlin meeting with seven other candidates who challenged him, that the focus should now be on raising living standards and solving other domestic issues. (Yuri Kadobnov/Pool Photo via AP)
            
WASHINGTON (AP) — The Latest on President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin (all times local):
The U.S. State Department says it's "no surprise" that Russian President Vladimir Putin was re-elected.
State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert says some people in Russia were paid to turn out to vote. She says opposition leaders were intimidated or jailed.
Nauert is citing a preliminary report by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe that says Russia's election took place in an overly controlled environment that lacked an even playing field for all contenders. She says the U.S. has every reason to believe that report is correct.
Nauert's comments are notably tougher on Russia than those of the White House. President Donald Trump is being criticized by Sen. John McCain and others for calling Putin on Tuesday to congratulate him for his re-election.
White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders says the poisoning of an ex-spy in Britain didn't come up in President Donald Trump's Tuesday call with Russia's Vladimir Putin.
Outgoing Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has said it's "almost beyond comprehension" why a state actor would deploy such a dangerous substance in a public place in a foreign country where others could be exposed.
Sanders told reporters that Trump also didn't raise the issues of election meddling or Russia's allegedly tainted voting process. She says: "That's not simply what today's call was about."
Sen. John McCain is criticizing President Donald Trump for commending Vladimir Putin for his re-election to a fourth six-year term as Russia's leader.
The Arizona Republican says, "An American president does not lead the Free World by congratulating dictators on winning sham elections."
McCain, the Armed Services Committee chairman, also says that by doing so Trump has "insulted every Russian citizen who was denied the right to vote in a free and fair election to determine their country's future."
McCain has previously called Putin a murderer and a thug. He's also pressed the Trump administration to respond aggressively to Russia's interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.
President Donald Trump says he wants to meet with Russia's Vladimir Putin in the "not too distant future" to discuss the "arms race" between Russia and the U.S.
Trump said in the Oval Office: "Í suspect we'll probably be meeting in the not too distant future to discuss the arms race, which is getting out of control, but we will never allow anybody to have anything even close to what we have."
Trumps comments came after what he says was a "very good call" with Putin on Tuesday morning to congratulate the Russian leader on his re-election Sunday to a fourth six-year term.
The Kremlin says U.S. President Donald Trump has called Russian President Vladimir Putin to congratulate him on re-election.
The Kremlin said in a statement that the two presidents also spoke Tuesday about the need to coordinate efforts to limit the arms race and closer cooperation on strategic stability and counter-terrorism.
The statement says they also expressed satisfaction with the apparent easing of tensions over North Korea's weapons program.
The Kremlin said the two leaders also discussed the Ukrainian crisis and the 7-year Syrian war and talked about a possible bilateral meeting.
Russia has repeatedly said it hoped for better ties with the U.S. under Trump. Relations between the two countries instead have remained tense amid the allegations of Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election and the investigations of whether there was collusion between Trump's campaign and Russia.