Russia says Boris Johnson 'poisoned with hatred' after comparing World Cup to Hitler's Olympics – as it happened
Rolling coverage of the day’s political developments as they happened, including foreign secretary giving evidence to MPs on spy poisoning scandal
Boris Johnson has predicted the Russian president Vladimir Putin will glory in the World Cup this summer in the same way that Adolf Hitler did over the Olympic Games in Berlin in 1936, and suggested the UK will need to advise English soccer fans not to travel to Russia for their own safety.
Senior Russian diplomatic and military officials have accused the UK of hiding and possibly planning to destroy evidence in the investigation into the Salisbury nerve agent attack.
Leaders representing 1.3 million NHS staff have endorsed a deal that will deliver a pay rise of at least 6.5% over three years, despite concerns it will mean a further fall in real incomes.
The chair of the Commons home affairs committee has called for a full investigation into the activities of Cambridge Analytica after it emerged that its parent company was granted provisional “List X” status by the Ministry of Defence until 2013, granting it access to secret documents.
Tory Brexiters have demanded that Theresa May reject the transition deal agreed between David Davis, the Brexit secretary, and his EU opposite number, Michel Barnier, in Brussels on Monday.
Jeremy Corbyn has used prime minister’s questions to castigate the government over what he called a “slash and burn” approach to council funding, marking the start of Westminster campaigning for local elections in England, which take place in six weeks.
Higher interest rates from the Bank of England have moved a decisive step closer after the latest official figures showed earnings growing at their fastest rate in more than two years.
MPs have challenged connexions between a firm linked to Cambridge Analytica, AggegateIQ, and the DUP.
Cambridge Analytica is at the centre of the global scandal over its use of FaceBook data to target voters.
The regulations do now apply in Northern Ireland, meaning the parties are required to set out all donations and loans, the requirement only applies from July 2017 – although the Electoral Commission had expressly recommended that the regulations should be backdated to 2014.
He says he now wants to persuade America to keep it. He is not sure he will be able to persuade President Trump, but he thinks they are all better off keeping the deal, and Iran not having nuclear weapons.
He says it could be possible to keep the joint comprehensive plan of action (JCPOA) without America participating, but that this would be hard.
Austin ends by asking why, whenever Johnson gives evidence to the committee, Downing Street sends the prime minister’s parliamentary private secretary, Seema Kennedy, along to the hearing to keep an eye on him.
Johnson says that that is a tribute to how seamlessly the Foreign Office and Number 10 work together.
Mind you before Labour leap in, No10 added FCO contract started in 2009 and Home Off one started in 2008/9 - under Gordon Brown govt. No Govt depts have had "direct contracts with Cambridge Analytica".
No10 reveals two more Govt contracts with SCL parent company of Cambridge Analytica: one with FCO (for training), one with Home Office (for comms). MOD have also had contract. All have ended.
Johnson says earlier he referred to the Salisbury attack being an attack on “agents”. He says he wants to correct the record. He meant “agent”. He does not want to be misundersood.
(In other words, he is clarifying that he was not implying Yulia Skripal, Sergei’s daughter, was an agent.)
Chris Bryant says Johnson also talked about assassins. Was he definitely saying more than one person was involved?
Johnson says he was not making a particular point. But he says it can be assumed that more than one person was involved.
Johnson on Salisbury operation. "We can take it that this was not confined to one individual" Adds this should not be taken as news.
Q: Why did we asks for an opt-out from the EU’s common foreign and security policy during the transition?
Johnson says it is not government policy to publish documents just because they have been leaked. He says reports of what the memo said were misleading.
He can sum the strategy up simply. The more global Britain is, it is better for the globe and better for Britain, he says.
Johnson says the Commonwealth is very important to him. He says it is an institution that has stood the test of time, and one that has been undervalued by Britain.
Q: Is the government gathering information on people who have been responsible for war crimes in Syria, including Russians?