This site uses cookies to enhance your reading experience. By using this site, you consent to our use of cookies.
Axios PM: Trump's congrats for Putin — Cambridge Analytica CEO suspended — The Facebook meeting — Black Panther sets Twitter record
https://www.axios.com/trump-says-he-wants-to-meet-putin-in-not-too-distant-future--93d3bce1-951a-4fce-a6fd-6b17ae804eaf.html
In an Oval Office meeting with Saudi crown prince Mohammed bin Salman Tuesday, President Trump said he wants to meet Vladimir Putin in the "not too distant future" to discuss the "arms race" and North Korea. Trump also said he spoke with the Russian president earlier today and congratulated him on his recent election victory.
President Donald J. Trump spoke today with President Vladimir Putin of Russia.  The two leaders discussed the state of bilateral relations and resolved to continue dialogue about mutual national security priorities and challenges. President Trump congratulated President Putin on his March 18 re-election, and emphasized the importance of denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula.  The two leaders confirmed the need for the United States and Russia to continue our shared efforts on strategic stability.
Neither the White House nor the Kremlin readouts of the conversation mentioned any discussion of Russian election meddling or the poisoning of ex-spy Sergei Skripal.
https://www.axios.com/trump-congratulates-putin-election-call-000eaf97-56e2-44cc-9f36-72c358a18914.html
President Trump spoke with Vladimir Putin this afternoon, and congratulated him on winning re-election on Sunday. After the call, Press Secretary Sarah Sanders was asked whether Trump felt the election had been free and fair, and said it wasn’t up to the U.S. to “dictate" how Russia holds elections.
“Look, in terms of the election there, we’re focused on our elections. We don’t get to dictate how other countries operate. What we do know is that Putin has been elected… We can only focus on the freeness and fairness of our elections.”
The poisoning of ex-spy Sergei Skripal with a chemical weapon in the U.K., which the U.S. and its allies have said Russia is responsible for.
Instances of ballot stuffing, and Putin’s efforts to undermine any serious competition in the election.