'I literally grabbed whatever. I was reminded of the Grenfell Tower' - residents describe fleeing scene of Ballymun fire
A fire at the Metro Hotel near Dublin Airport while (inset) image from Dublin Fire Brigade shows damage caused to inside of the building Picture: Niall Carson/PA Wire/Dublin Fire Brigade
General view of Fire Brigade attempting to put out fire at Metro Hotel, Ballymun, Dublin. Picture: Caroline Quinn
'I literally grabbed whatever. I was reminded of the Grenfell Tower' - residents describe fleeing scene of Ballymun fire
One of Dublin Fire Brigade's fire engines remained at the scene of a major blaze at the Metro Hotel in Ballymun this morning as residents described the shock of having to flee their homes.
https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/news/i-literally-grabbed-whatever-i-was-reminded-of-the-grenfell-tower-residents-describe-fleeing-scene-of-ballymun-fire-36730721.html

One of Dublin Fire Brigade's fire engines remained at the scene of a major blaze at the Metro Hotel in Ballymun this morning as residents described the shock of having to flee their homes.

The fire broke out at the Metro Hotel building in Ballymun, north Dublin shortly after 8.00pm on Wednesday night.
The cause of the blaze is not yet known, but over 60 firefighters battled the blaze to get it under control last night.
It's believed the building was fully evacuated and Dublin Fire Brigade confirmed this morning that there are no reports of any injuries  to members of the public or firefighters.
This morning, Dublin Fire Brigade posted images from inside the building, showing the extent of the damage caused by the fire.
Last night, firefighters could be seen entering the hotel with breathing apparatus on their backs while high powered hoses battled the flames from the ground up.
A fireman at the scene in Ballymun this morning in the aftermath of the fire in The Metro Hotel.
Photo: Tony Gavin 22/3/201
The main source of the fire was on the 13th floor of the hotel. Debris from the building could be seen breaking off and crashing onto parked vehicles below.
The vicinity of the hotel was sealed off to the public with a large section of the Ballymun Road closed to vehicles for the evening.
A witness, who went by the name of Joy, told Classic Hits' 4fm that she was in shock having waited too long to react to the fire alarm.
"The alarm was going on for a long time, I didn't do anything until I realised it was going on too long.
"I literally grabbed whatever. I was reminded of the Grenfell Tower, I thought oh my god, this is happening.
"I've lived there for two or three years. I haven't thought about the future yet, I'm just thinking, oh my god."
"It reeked of burning plastic and even though my windows were closed I knew something big was on fire."
Anthony Flynn of the Inner City Helping Homeless (ICHH) said he was driving past the hotel shortly before 9pm when he saw a flame at the top of the building.
"I was on my way home when I seen it and it was a spark of a fire, it was just about starting," he said.
Another local man told Independent.ie: "It started around 7.30pm and I saw a little spark and saw loads of people running out of the exits, screaming for help.
"The fire brigade hadn't arrived yet so ran into the lobby and the alarms were blaring. The person at the reception told me she already knew and that the emergency crew were on their way.
"There were loads of people just running out. I saw one woman crying in her dressing gown with her three children.
She tweeted: "If anyone around the hotel needs jumpers or blankets, we're in a car in Balcurris and have both."
The Dublin Regional Homeless Executive (DRHE) has confirmed that no homeless families were residing in the building.
The Fine Gael representative said: "I hope that everybody is safe but cannot be certain for the moment.
"I’d like to praise the emergency workers I’ve spoken to this evening, and thank them for their work."
This is the second multi story fire that emergency services dealt with within hours, having earlier fought a blaze in an apartment block in Sandyford.
Metro Hotel wishes to apologise to hotel patrons and guests that the hotel is currently closed, and will remain closed for some time, following a fire. 
"All hotel guests (over 150) as well as the residents of 30 apartments attached to the hotel are accounted for and were relocated to the nearby Carlton Hotel for the night," it said. 
"The key focus of hotel staff today is to notify inbound guests and to source alternative accommodation for tenants and guests, with whom we will be liaising throughout today.
"Unfortunately, guest and tenant access to personal belongings located in the hotel / apartments is restricted until clearance is received from emergency services. We will provide regular updates as they become available.
"The cause of the fire is still being investigated. No decision can be made about a hotel re-opening date until the cause of the fire has been established and all safety considerations have been thoroughly assessed."

Remembering Ryan McBride: 'You went down to watch your son playing. All of a sudden he is not there'


Farming under Dublin airport's new flight path 'the buildings vibrate and it's impossible to hear anyone talk'
