Many new start-ups strive for innovation creating and applying fresh concepts when it comes to modern telecommunication, monetary systems, and financial markets applications.
These start-ups may be as small as a local grocery store or as huge as the Berlin-based Internet Of Things giant IOTA Foundation, worth an astonishing $3.7 billion in market capitalization at the moment, while it had previously reached a cap of $14 bn earlier this year.
Despite the huge competition, some brands have already established a name for themselves in the scene and need no introduction. Vodafone is one of them.
Under a new agreement, the two parties will share new IoT project opportunities. Vodafone customers will be given access to China Mobile IoT SIMS for deployments in China, and China Mobile customers wanting to offer IoT-enabled products outside of China will use Vodafone’s Global IoT SIM and management platform.
Vodafone will manage all elements of the operational model for its customers including on-boarding, SIM, and logistics as well as billing and support. The company will effectively act as a single point of contact for its enterprise IoT customers wanting to move into China.
At the same time, China Mobile will discuss the possibility for IoT sales opportunities with Vodafone for companies wanting to expand outside of China.
“This is an important step in the global expansion of IoT. China is leading the way in IoT adoption and has the world’s largest domestic market for IoT enabled services. This agreement with China Mobile will give our customers a route to the exciting Chinese market and provide a bridge for China Mobile’s customer to the rest of the world.”
“Having reached over 200 million IoT connections last year, China Mobile target to increase the connections by 60% in 2018. Together with Vodafone, we will be able to offer customers the greatest possible reach in regards to IoT services. We are excited about the opportunities this agreement will bring to both companies and the industry as a whole.”
Living in an era where technological advancement creates the essence of a Temporal Eternity. - 

temporaleternity.com is your reliable source for fintech news as well as global updates surrounding military, health and the industrial sectors.