They want Scotland’s highest civil court to refer their case to the European Court of Justice for a definitive decision on whether Britain could unilaterally revoke Article 50 if the final deal is rejected by MPs.
They claim the possibility of calling off Brexit would offer a third option, instead of Britain potentially having to choose between a bad deal or leaving the EU with no deal.
They were critical of the "rhetoric and extraneous and irrelevant material" in the petition but added that there was a "point of substance" which should be "argued in the normal way" in court.
The group includes the Green MSPs Andy Wightman and Ross Greer, the SNP MEP Alyn Smith and the Labour MEPs David Martin and Catherine Sithler.
But Lords Carloway, Menzies and Drummond said on Tuesday: "The issue of whether it is legally possible to revoke the notice of withdrawal is, as already stated, one of great importance.
"On one view, authoritative guidance on whether it is legally possible to do so may have the capacity to influence Members of Parliament in deciding what steps to take in advance of, and at the time of, a debate and vote on the European Union (Withdrawal) Bill.
"After all, if Parliament is to be regarded as sovereign, the Government's position on the legality of revoking the notice may not be decisive."
He wrote: "Whether the CJEU will entertain a question of the type proposed is dependent upon whether this court considers that there is a genuine dispute requiring settlement. If this court sought a reference, the CJEU would be bound to reply to the questions asked.
"In short, therefore, having regard to all the circumstances, the court is of the view that the Lord Ordinary erred in holding that there is no 'real prospect of success' in this petition.
"The court's decision, having heard full argument, may ultimately reflect the Lord Ordinary's view but that is for another day."
He said Lord Doherty was right to conclude there was no live issue in dispute because of the government's clear and consistent position that the Article 50 notification will not be withdrawn.
Mr Johnston said: "That being so, the question whether, as a matter of law, it could be withdrawn does not arise. The court is being asked to rule on the legality of something which nobody is proposing to do."
Austin bomber could be carrying out 'trial run' for bigger attack as new blast raises fears in Texas area
Guernsey could become first place in British Isles to have a suicide clinic with vote on assisted dying laws
Essay mill websites must warn students about risks of submitting fake work, advertising watchdog rules
Drugs to vaccinate over-50s against Alzheimer’s could be here in a decade...with a £ 9bn price tag
Corbyn and McCluskey tighten grip on Labour party as ally Jennie Formby appointed party's new general secretary
Russian agents learn from Litvinenko errors to devise hit on Sergei Skripal that leaves police baffled
The Great Celebrity Bake Off, episode 3, review: Jamie Laing, heir to the McVitie's fortune, bakes the worst cake ever 
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.