Judge Anthony Cross QC warned anyone riding their bikes on footpaths posed a "serious risk" to pedestrians and said they would have to face crown court and jail if they knocked someone down - and were caught.
He made the comments at Manchester Crown Court as he spared a photography student from going to prison. Jesus Medina knocked down 72-year-old Marlene Crossley on a footpath, as she emerged from a corner shop in Salford. 
The pensioner  suffered a fractured hip after being spun round by the force of the impact and despite surgery she has not recovered her full mobility and she struggles to sleep at night.
Medina, 24, from Fallowfield, Manchester, had been facing up two years jail after he admitted an offence under the obscure Victorian law of "causing harm by wanton and furious driving." 
But he was ordered to complete 40 hours unpaid work and pay Mrs Crossley £750 compensation after the court heard how he stayed at the scene of the accident to comfort the victim and gave his details to police. 
"People simply don't realise when riding their bikes on footpaths they can kill people. It's obvious that there are real, dangers inherent in anybody riding their bicycle on a pavement the risks to members of the public should not be ignored.
"Here though there are a number of features which distinguish this case from others which are obvious to anybody who walked about this city."
Holland and Barrett remove krill products from shelves after warning they were stealing food from penguins
Donald Trump vows Joe Biden would 'go down hard, crying all the way' after 'threat' to beat up US president
Russia's spy network at risk as EU agrees 'highly likely' country carried out Salisbury nerve agent attack
Martin Luther King by Trevor McDonald review: a fine report on the positive changes in racial equality that King pioneered
Police apologise after officers post selfie from scene of fatal stabbing, saying it was 'insensitive'
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.