Climate change will drive human migration more than other events, a new report warns. But the worst impacts can be avoided.
People carry their important household items by boat in a flood-affected village in Gaibandha, Bangladesh, in August 2017. The low-lying country has many residents that are at risk from a changing climate in the near future.
Most of this population shift will take place in Sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia, and Latin America—three “hot spots” that represent 55 percent of the developing world’s populations.
Sea-level rise is already prompting the migration of people from Pacific and Oceania island chains and low-lying coastal areas that flood regularly, and areas suffering extreme drought has sent others in search of sustainable farmland. Much of the coming migration will shift populations of people over the next three decades from rural areas to urban areas. Not surprisingly, the poorest people in the poorest countries will be hardest hit, the report finds.
The study’s authors say there is still reason for optimism: if the world acts in time to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and engages in “robust development planning,” the flood of “climate migrants” could be reduced by 80 percent to a mere 40 million people.
The report profiled three countries as case studies—Ethiopia, Bangladesh and Mexico—and warns that fast-growing cities will have to diversify economically and create climate-resilient jobs to successfully absorb population growth.
Climate change is expected to impact Mexico by encouraging more people to move to Mexico City from outlying areas that are more at risk for changes.
Alternatively, sea-level rise and storm surges will prompt growth in the major cities of Bangladesh, including the capital city of Dhaka. Bangladesh, the study predicts, will experience greater shifts and changes to population from climate change than any other event.
Mexico, the wealthiest of the trio profiled, is less vulnerable to climate change and better prepared than Ethiopia and Bangladesh. But “it needs to pay close attention to pockets of poverty,” the study’s authors found. The central plateau around Mexico City and Guatemala City, which may offer better climate conditions, may attract climate migrants.
But there’s not a lot of time to act. Without cuts to greenhouse gases and other preparations, climate migration will most likely rise through 2050, the authors find, and then accelerate.