WATCH ABOVE: Senate reacted after Bill C-45 passed second reading on Thursday night with some saying that it wasn't unusual to vote for further study on the bill. The vote passed on a thin margin of 44-29.
It is now headed to committee, where it is expected to face scathing reviews by Conservative senators.
While Liberals had the numbers to pass the legislation in the House of Commons even if the NDP had not voted with them to support the bill, the same was not true for the situation in the Senate.
While there are still 11 senators who call themselves Liberals, they are not formally aligned with the party and the other 43 members of the Independent Senators Group cannot be whipped into supporting or even attending a vote on a government bill.
The 33 Conservative senators, however, generally vote in a bloc and with roughly a dozen mainly Independent senators travelling for committee work at the moment, it was unclear up until the vote happened whether the government would be able to get enough votes to move the bill forward.
C-45, which was introduced in April 2017 and referred to the Senate in November 2017, would be a fulfilment of one of the Liberal government’s core campaign planks.
However, Conservative opposition to the proposal to legalize marijuana has been fierce and senators from the caucus are expected to hammer the bill and attempt to introduce significant amendments as it moves through examination by committee.
The deadline for the Senate to pass the legislation, as agreed upon by Senate leaders and the government, is June 7.

									Canada has tried to deport this B.C. man for 20 years. ‘Stateless’ criminals pose challenge for CBSA								

									An Ontario man who once belonged to a Palestinian terrorist group was ordered deported in 2005. He's still here.								

									Canada is failing to deport criminals. Here's why it can take years, sometimes decades								

									
									Donald Trump says ‘crazy’ Joe Biden ‘would go down fast and hard, crying all the way’ in a fight								


									Male orca kills baby killer whale in B.C. waters to mate with mom, scientists believe								


									Security camera footage shows Vegas shooter’s activities inside hotel in days before shooting								