MPs consider investigation after it emerges 180 million poultry slaughtered without effective stunning last year
MPs sitting on an influential environment committee are considering an investigation after it emerged millions of poultry are being slaughtered without an effective stun. 
Around 180 million chickens and other poultry were killed last year using an electric shock vets deem insufficient to guarantee unconsciousness because of a loophole in the law, Government figures suggest.
Experts said the shocking figures called into question Britain’s claim to be a world leader in animal welfare.
Stunning ensures animals are dead or unconscious at the moment their throats are cut, meaning they do not feel pain.
Slaughterhouses can only use stunning methods exempt from EU regulations because of “religious rites”, where animals are not stunned in the usual way because of religious conventions.
Paul Flynn, who also sits on the committee, said the “very worrying” figures were something he would “certainly” consider raising at future committee meetings. 
The shocking figures come as animal welfare has come under increased scrutiny as the UK prepares for Brexit. 
Despite Environment Secretary Michael Gove’s insistence Britain could have “higher standards” of animal welfare outside the European Union, in July an influential parliamentary committee warned Brexit could do the opposite.
“The Government’s wish for the UK to become a global leader in free trade is not necessarily compatible with its desire to maintain high animal welfare standards,” the House of Lords subcommittee on EU energy and environment found.
Gudrun Ravetz, senior vice-president of the BVA, said: “This increase in the number of poultry that are not stunned or not stunned effectively before slaughter is a grave concern. Millions of individual animals are affected, making this a major animal welfare issue.”
“The lack of evidence-based parameters for waterbath stunning of poultry means English regulations are simply not for fit for purpose, and could call into question our claim as a leader in high animal welfare.”
Government figures show a massive 91 million poultry were either stunned ineffectively, or not stunned at all because of religious rites between April and September 2017 – and that 180 million chickens, turkeys and other poultry are estimated to have been slaughtered this way over the course of the year. 
The only other year for which FSA figures are available, 2015, shows around 167.5 million were killed without effective stunning – though the FSA urged caution when comparing the 2015 and 2017 numbers, saying they were calculated using different methodologies.
According to the FSA, stunning under exemption from EU regulations is “shown by research not to be effective stunning... as it is not possible for an official veterinarian to determine if the bird is effectively stunned or simply immobilised”.
It suggests most poultry slaughtered in this way are not being killed for religious purposes at all, and are suffering avoidably painful deaths.
Houses sit on the cliff edge on The Marrams in Hemsby, as thirteen homes on the sandy cliffs have been evacuated amid fears they could topple into the sea, with further high tides and strong winds forecast. The residents of the properties in Norfolk were forced to leave over the weekend, Great Yarmouth Borough Council said.
Activists show their support outside of Chelmsford Crown Court for the ‘Stansted 15’, a group prosecuted under terrorism-related charges after blocking a mass deportation charter flight in April 2017
Fans make their way through a snow shower to Molineux Stadium ahead of the Sky Bet Championship match between Wolverhampton Wanderers and Burton Albion. Amber warnings for snow and ice have been issued by the Met Office ahead of a cold snap dubbed the "mini beast from the east".
Britain's Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson and the Polish Foreign Minister Jacek Czaputowicz visit a Battle of Britain bunker at RAF Northolt in Uxbridge.
Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May talks with Wiltshire Police's Chief Constable Kier Pritchard as she is shown the police tent covering the bench in Salisbury, where former Russian double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia were discovered on March 4, following an apparent nerve agent attack.
Britain expelled 23 Russian diplomats over the nerve agent poisoning and suspended high-level contacts, including for the World Cup on March 14. Theresa May told parliament that Russia had failed to respond to her demand for an explanation on how a Soviet-designed chemical, Novichok, was used in Salisbury.
A man prepares to lay flowers outside Gonville and Caius College, at Cambridge University following the death of British physicist, Stephen Hawking, who was a fellow of the University for over 50 years. The flag over the college flew at half-mast as students and academics came to pay tribute after his death.
A police officer on duty near a protective tent which covers the bench where a man and woman were apparently poisoned with what was later identified as a nerve agent, in Salisbury.
Protesters against the Turkish war on Syrian Kurds in Afrin block the tracks at Manchester Piccadilly station bringing rail services in and out of the terminal to a halt.
Royal Air Force Police dog Tornado leaps through a set of hoops on day three of the Crufts dog show at the NEC Arena in Birmingham.
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, with Scottish Labour leader Richard Leonard, during a visit to Abertay University in Dundee, prior to his address to delegates at the Scottish Labour Party Conference in the city's Caird Hall.
Britain's Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson sits with Year 1 pupils during a visit to St Leonard's Church of England Primary Academy in Hastings.
Electronic billboards show adverts for Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman with the hashtag
‘#ANewSaudiArabia’ in London.
A police officer stands guard outside a branch of the Italian chain restaurant Zizzi close to The Maltings shopping centre in Salisbury, which was closed in connection to the ongoing major incident sparked after a man and a woman were found critically ill on a bench at the shopping centre on 4 March.
Gary Oldman, winner of the Best Actor award for 'Darkest Hour,' poses with his award in the press room during the 90th Annual Academy Awards at Hollywood & Highland Center.
Great Britain's Andrew Pozzi celebrates winning the men's 60m hurdles final as Aries Merritt of United States looks dejected during the IAAF World Indoor Championships at Arena Birmingham.
People playing with their sledges in Greenwich Park, east London, as the cold weather continues around the country.
'The Couple', a sculpture by Sean Henry, braves the snow in Newbiggin-By-The-Sea in Northumberland, as storm Emma, rolling in from the Atlantic, looks poised to meet the Beast from the East's chilly Russian air.
The scene on the M80 Haggs in Glasgow, as the highest level of weather warning has been issued for Scotland and Ireland as forecasters warn of "blizzard-like" conditions. A red alert for Munster and Leinster in the Republic of Ireland and the central belt of Scotland has been put out for heavy snow and strong winds. Dublin, Kildare, Louth, Wicklow and Meath are also covered by a red warning, which was issued early on Wednesday morning. 
Icicles hang from a frozen elephant fountain in Colchester. Freezing weather conditions dubbed the "Beast from the East" has seen snow and sub-zero temperatures hit the UK.
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn makes a keynote speech as he sets out Labour's position on Brexit, at the National Transport Design Centre in Coventry. Jeremy Corbyn's Brexit speech confirmed that a Labour Government would negotiate full tariff-free access to EU markets for UK business. 
Victims of the Northern Ireland Troubles come together to take part in the Time for truth march through Belfast city centre against the stalled efforts in dealing with Northern Ireland's legacy issues.
Oxford University Boat Club race in preparation for The Cancer Research UK Boat Race 2018, Oxford University Boat Club race Oxford Brookes University in London, England.
Former BHS owner Dominic Chappell leaves Barkingside Magistrates Court after being given a £87,170 fine in Barking, England. Mr Chappell, who was in charge of BHS for a year before it went bust, was found guilty of failing to provide information demanded by The Pensions Regulator.
Youths chase after the leather ball during the annual 'Fastern Eve Handba' event in Jedburgh's High Street in the Scottish Borders in Jedburgh, Scotland. The annual event, which started in the 1700's, takes place today and involves two teams, the Uppies (residents from the higher part of Jedburgh) and the Doonies (residents from the lower part of Jedburgh) getting the ball to either the top or bottom of the town. The ball which is made of leather, stuffed with straw and decorated with ribbons is thrown into the crowd to begin the game.
An anti-Brexit campaign battle bus drives through Westminster in London, England. The crowd-funded coach is to tour the country making 33 stops two years after the Vote Leave campaign drove a similar bus around the UK with the now famous slogan: 'We send the EU £350 million a week let's fund our NHS instead'.
Sarah Clarke is introduced as the new Black Rod to the House of Lords. She is the first female Black Rod in the 650-year history of the role and will be known as the Lady Usher of the Black Rod.
Britain's Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson holds a rhinoceros horn as he visits a Metropolitan Police wildlife crime unit facility in London. The Foreign Secretary's visit was to help him learn more about the work they do internationally to tackle the illegal wildlife trade (IWT). 
Lizzy Yarnold of Great Britain celebrates after winning the gold medal during the Women's Skeleton on day eight of the PyeongChang 2018 Winter Olympic Games
Dame Vivienne Westwood walks the runway to model in the #INEOSVTHEPEOPLE catwalk presentation outside fracking giant INEOS’s headquarters in London
Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson delivers his speech: Road to Brexit, a United Kingdom, as part of the Government’s road map on Brexit, at the Policy Exchange, London
England and Durham cricketer Ben Stokes, 26, leaving Bristol Magistrates' Court, where he was told he will face a crown court trial over an altercation outside a nightclub
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn meets with local party supporters and residents in Penicuik, Midlothian, before speaking at a campaign rally at the town's Miners Welfare Hall
Volunteers create a heart shaped collection of plastic bottles littering the foreshore of the River Thames at Queenhithe Dock in central London, in an event organised by the #OneLess campaign and Thames21 to draw attention to the impact that single-use plastic water bottles are having on the environment.
Florist Hank Roling poses with a Vanda orchid during a press preview of the Thai Orchid Festival at Kew Gardens, London
Prime Minister Theresa May joins female Members of both Houses at the Palace of Westminster, to mark the 100th anniversary of the passing of the Representation of the People Act, which gave certain women over the age of 30 a vote and the right to stand for Parliament.
Lauri Love outside the Royal Courts of Justice after a judge ruled against extraditing him to America in a case where he was accused of hacking thousands of US government computers.
A statue of suffragette Alice Hawkins being unveiled in Market Square, Leicester. Ms Hawkins, a shoe machinist, was jailed five times while leading the Suffragette campaign in the city in the early 20th Century.
Demonstrators gather on Gover Street in central London ahead of a march towards Downing Street to protest against underfunding and privatisation of the NHS and demand an end to the winter crisis in the health service.
Millicent Fawcett by Annie Swynnerton, newly on display at Tate Britain. Fawcett was a leading figure in the suffragist movement and campaigned relentlessly to get the vote for women in this country. The portrait of her is on display at Tate Britain to mark the centenary of the Representation of the People Act, which gave women over 30 the right to vote.
British Prime Minister Theresa May and husband Philip May visit the Forbidden City in Beijing during her three-day visit to China.
Members of the Jarl Squad dressed in Viking suits after marching through the streets in Lerwick on the Shetland Isles during the Up Helly Aa Viking Festival.
Travis Frain (left) and Dan Hett from the Survivors Against Terror Group talk to students at Manchester Enterprise Academy. Frain survived the Westminster attack in March 2017, while Hett’s brother Martin was one of the 22 who died in the Manchester attack in May 2017.
Members of the English Civil War Society take part in the King's Army Annual March and Parade, in London, as they commemorate the execution of Charles I. The route follows the route taken by Charles I from St James Palace on the Mall to the place of his death at the Banqueting House in Whitehall.
John Fishwick, president of the BVA, suggested it could be down to a demand from overseas consumers, and big UK retailers who want a “single supply chain solution”, which would bring down costs.
“Figures on the numbers of animals slaughtered without stunning suggest that meat from these animals is outweighing demand and entering the mainstream market,” he said.
“Vets, as an animal welfare focussed profession, believe that people should be able to decide whether or not to eat meat from animals that were not stunned before slaughter.”
The Veterinary Policy Research Foundation (VPRF) speculated it could be because non-stun meat can be eaten by religious and non-religious communities alike, whereas stunned meat cannot.
“They endure agonising pain and die slowly in a terrifying and miserable way. And the final moments of these birds’ lives are just one part of the long and cruel process of modern meat production – from the cramped and filthy cages to the gruelling journeys to the abattoir in all weather extremes.”
It is understood Environment Department is working with the industry in an attempt to work out the reasons behind the figures.
Under Islamic law, most livestock are slaughtered using a type of stunning – called reversible stunning – that ensures the animal is not dead before its throat is cut. Other, stricter interpretations of halal slaughter demand there is no prior stunning at all.
Although the FSA’s figures fail to reveal the number of animals killed without being stunned at all, it is estimated only 10 per cent of Halal meat is produced without any form of stun.
The method used by the Jewish community, Shechita, requires all animals to be conscious at the point of slaughter. Around 70 per cent of all meat produced by the Shechita method is sold on the general market, according to the VPRF.
He said it produced a “proper and effective stun that ensures the animal is instantly insensible to pain followed by death without delay”.
The BVA is pushing for all meat produced using non-stunning methods to be clearly labelled in UK shops so consumers can make an “informed choice” about where their food is coming from.
Asked in the House of Lords earlier this month if the Government would introduce labelling, animal welfare minister Lord Gardiner of Kimble said it would be “considering” the issue “in the context of our departure from the EU”.
But Mr Cohen said labelling which distinguished between stun and non-stun meat could “amount to a deception of the consumer and an affront to faith communities”.
“If we want to ensure true consumer information, they should be told the method of stunning administered; captive bolt shooting, gassing, electrocution by tongs or water or any of the other approved methods.”
“We have no intention of banning religious slaughter. The Government respects religious freedoms and expects the industry, whether food producer or food outlet, to provide consumers with all the information they need to make informed choices.”
Advertising helps fund our journalism and keep it truly independent. It helps to build our international editorial team, from war correspondents to investigative reporters, commentators to critics.
If you are Private Browsing in Firefox, "Tracking Protection" may cause the adblock notice to show. It can be temporarily disabled by clicking the "shield" icon in the address bar.
Then click the big power button to whitelist the current web site, and its state will be remembered next time you visit the web site.