Greenpeace Co-Founder and Allies Arrested Protesting Trans Mountain Pipeline That Threatens Pacific Coast
Rex Weyler, a founding member of Greenpeace, said: “Forty-six years ago, Greenpeace got its start right here in Vancouver protecting this coastline, and the world, from the sorts of ecological disasters and social disruption that Kinder Morgan’s pipeline threatens. Like then, we stand now for protection of the natural bounty that keeps our communities alive and prosperous. We stand here on the land and by the waters of the Tsleil Waututh people, who have shown us generosity and taught us responsibility, in solidarity and prepared to go to jail, to preserve the ecological integrity of this coast for ourselves and future generations.”
Barbara and Bob Stowe, daughter and son of Greenpeace founders Dorothy and Irving Stowe, said: “We see a lot of parallels between the fight against Kinder Morgan today, and Greenpeace's first action: sailing a boat to stop nuclear bomb tests in Alaska in 1971. Like Kinder Morgan’s pipeline, those tests did not have Indigenous consent and would devastate a pristine environment. Both projects amounted to a government-approved home invasion on Indigenous territory. Today, we will stand with Coast Salish Peoples against it. If our parents were alive today, they'd be standing right here with us.”
Pipelines like Trans Mountain, Keystone XL, and Enbridge’s Line 3 worsen the effects of climate change because of their high carbon emissions when oil is extracted and burned. Further, research into Kinder Morgan, Trans Canada, and Enbridge have shown that from 2010 to the present they have had 373 hazardous liquid spills from their U.S. pipeline networks, jeopardizing the safety of drinking water. Further, expansion of the Trans Mountain pipeline would increase tar sands oil tanker traffic along the Pacific Coast. The noise these ships make would jeopardize the survival of the Southern Resident Killer Whale, whose numbers have dwindled to just 76 in recent years. And since more tankers mean more spills, any increase in coastal traffic puts marine life and local fish populations at risk, including the tourism and fishing industry jobs they support.
Independent campaigning organization that uses non-violent, creative confrontation to expose global environmental problems, and to force solutions that are essential to a green and peaceful future.
'We Must Protect the Water': Indigenous Leaders and Allies Stage Sit-In to Protest Kinder Morgan Pipeline
Trump's 'Middle School Project-Level' Posters Reveal Much About America's Blood-Soaked Backing of Saudi Regime
'Neglect and Bureaucracy': Six Months After Maria, Trump Condemned for Failed Response in Puerto Rico
As Lawmakers Accuse DeVos of Lack of Regard for Students, Her Own Staffer Admits 'Things Have Gotten Pretty Awful Here'
With Vote Looming, Anti-War Groups Call on Nation to Demand Congress End US-Backed Slaughter in Yemen
Lookit These Kids Redux: Over 200 kids in Pennsylvania who defied their school's ban on joining last week's nationwide walkout transformed their ostensible punishment into Civil Disobedience 101 by turning their detention into a silent, moving sit-in. With the community offering support - and pizza - the #Pennridge 225 linked arms, wore the names of Parkland victims and declared the consequences of their actions "a badge of honor" to show "we’ll stand up for what is right."
Common Dreams has been providing breaking news & views for the progressive community since 1997. We are independent, non-profit, advertising-free and 100% reader supported.