President’s reappointment for unlimited terms in office sends the state propaganda machine into overdrive 
Xi’s face dominated the front pages of major Sunday newspapers, many carrying the same editorial from the ruling Communist party’s official People’s Daily about Xi’s reappointment as president on Saturday.
It used language once more associated with Mao Zedong, who was known as the Great Helmsman, saying he was a “leader loved and respected by the people” and “helmsman of the country”. 
There was never any doubt that the largely rubber-stamp parliament would not have re-elected Xi as president on Saturday, especially following a constitutional amendment a week earlier which lifts presidential term limits, meaning Xi can stay on indefinitely. 
While the amendment was passed with just six dissenters – two no votes, three abstentions and one invalidated ballot – none of the roughly 3,000 legislators voted against Xi, a point made repeatedly in state media coverage. 
State television showed images from the floor in the Great Hall of the People of some legislators in tears after Xi swore an oath to the constitution following his re-election, a vote it described as a “solemn and sacred historic moment”. 
In a moment of high political theatre, a copy of the constitution was carried onto the main stage by three members of the armed forces. 
Other pictures on state media showed ordinary people standing in applause in front of television screens around the country at Xi’s re-appointment. 
The government has presented this month’s parliament session and its controversial removal of presidential term limits as widely welcomed despite criticism that has evaded the censors and seeped onto Chinese social media at times. 
The top-rated comment on Sunday morning was one user proudly saying he had pressed “like” 181 times. 
Also on Saturday, the man who, led Xi’s crackdown on corruption, Wang Qishan, was elected vice president. Only one person voted against Wang out of the 2,970 votes cast. 
“That does not leave a lot of room for Li Keqiang to exert much influence, to the extent that his progressive marginalisation would not be a big surprise.”