Both stories are excellent, and help us better understand exactly what Cambridge Analytica did during the 2016 election (and the primaries before it). But there are a few points worth pulling out and emphasizing.
In 2014, while working at Cambridge Analytica, Wylie hired a University of Cambridge professor named Aleksandr Kogan to build a database of psychometric profiles. Cambridge Analytica — funded by the right-wing billionaire Mercer family and advised by then–Breitbart editor-in-chief Steve Bannon — hoped to use the data to target political advertising and influence voter behavior. Using Amazon’s Mechanical Turk freelance boards, Kogan hired around 270,000 people to fill out a survey in an app that they would install in their Facebook accounts.
In other words, each of the 270,000 people who were paid to install the app also gave up a significant amount of data about their Facebook friends as well — meaning that from the original 270,000 subjects, Kogan managed to obtain as many as 50 million profiles, including information like locations, job and educational histories, and pages liked. Facebook has since changed privacy settings that mean you can’t be data-betrayed by your inconsiderate or careless friends. But at the time, there was nothing about what Kogan was doing with his app that broke any of Facebook’s rules. It wasn’t until he passed that data on to Cambridge Analytica that he put himself in violation of Facebook’s terms of use.
Facebook has therefore insisted that it was not party to a “breach” of user data. You could argue that this is a semantic argument, largely designed to protect the company from SEC regulations that would have required them to alert users that their data had been mishandled and distributed without explicit permission. Certainly, user trust has been breached, even if no particular server or database was illegally or maliciously accessed.
Kogan ran afoul of the rules by passing the data he’d obtained to a third party — Cambridge Analytica. He’d presented the app to Facebook and to its users as a project gathering for academic research, but then had turned around and given it to a company that had not been named or identified, and which sought to use the data for political, not academic, purposes.
How seriously should you take those recent reports of UFOs? Ask the Pentagon. Or read this primer for the SETI-curious.
The reported exit of security chief Alex Stamos sheds light on Facebook’s approach to the Cambridge Analytica and Russian-disinformation scandals.
Nine women have joined a class-action suit accusing their Uber drivers of violence, harassment, and rape.
Welcome! You are now a registered user of NYMag.com, TheCut.com, Vulture.com, ScienceOfUs.com and GrubStreet.com.