The Prime Minister says she has "full confidence" in her Foreign Secretary, despite the uproar his remarks have provoked.
Mr Johnson suggested Mr Putin will 'glory' in the World Cup in a similar fashion to Hitler at the 1936 Olympics
Moscow's ambassador to Britain has condemned Boris Johnson for likening Vladimir Putin to Adolf Hitler, accusing the Foreign Secretary of "insulting the Russian people".
Speaking during a news conference in London, Alexander Yakovenko said Mr Johnson's comments were "unacceptable and totally irresponsible".
He added: "The British Government is free to take a decision about its participation in the World Cup.
"But nobody has the right to insult the Russian people, who defeated Nazism and lost more than 25 million people, by comparing our country to Nazi Germany.
"That goes beyond common sense and we do not think British war veterans, including those of the Arctic convoys, would share this opinion."
Mr Johnson told a committee of MPs it was "an emetic prospect" to think of Mr Putin "glorying in this sporting event", as he agreed it would be comparable to the Olympics held in Nazi Germany.
He was responding to a question from Labour MP Ian Austin, who suggested Russia's President was planning to use the event "in the way Hitler used the 1936 Olympics" as a propaganda exercise to "gloss over" Russia's "gross human rights abuses".
Downing Street said Prime Minister Theresa May had "full confidence" in her Foreign Secretary, despite the uproar his remarks had provoked.
Mr Johnson has not commented since his appearance before MPs, but has posted on his official Twitter account about a HS2 meeting in his Uxbridge constituency.
Culture Secretary Matt Hancock suggested the best response to Russia hosting the World Cup would be for England to win it.
When asked if the PM agreed, her official spokesman said: "I think the Prime Minister would, of course, want our team to win the World Cup."
Mr Johnson's comments drew an immediate response from Russia after he made them on Wednesday, with its foreign ministry accusing the British Foreign Secretary of being "poisoned with venom of hate, unprofessionalism and boorishness".
Russian presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov kept up the attack earlier on Thursday, saying it was "a completely disgusting statement".
The 1936 Olympics provided a propaganda opportunity for Hitler and his Nazi regime in Germany, with the run-up to the Games marked by debate over whether it should be boycotted by other nations - most prominently in the US.
Hitler officiated at both the opening and closing ceremonies, but saw his dream of a triumph for "Aryan" athletes famously undermined by black American athlete Jesse Owens winning four gold medals.
Mr Johnson's remarks represent an escalation of the war of words between Britain and Russia over the poisoning of Russian double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in Salisbury earlier this month.
Responding to that briefing, Britain's Russian ambassador Laurie Bristow said it was a "two-hour marathon of personal insults, lies and disinformation".
In his news conference, Mr Yakovenko said Russia had yet to receive any information on the poisoning from Britain and added that Moscow had been blamed without evidence.
Mr Yakovenko said Russia "can't take British words for granted," and accused the UK of having a "bad record of violating international law and misleading the international community."
He went on to say that "history shows that British statements must be verified. We demand full transparency of the investigation and full cooperation with Russia" and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons."
At a European Council summit in Brussels on Thursday, the PM will speak of the "indiscriminate and reckless" attack in Salisbury as part of a pattern of recent behaviour from Moscow.
Moscow has also told the British Council in the country to shut down. The state-funded body, which promotes British culture overseas, said on Thursday it had ceased all activity in Russia.
As well as plunging ties between Britain and Russia to their lowest level since the Cold War, the poisoning has raised a number of questions about this summer's World Cup.
Mr Johnson told the MPs that he was "deeply concerned" at the treatment travelling England fans would likely receive in Russia.
Spy poisoning: Boris Johnson agrees Vladimir Putin will 'use World Cup like Hitler used 1936 Olympics'
He suggested the Foreign Office - which has until this point stopped short of advising fans not to travel - could reconsider its position given recent events.
But Mr Yakovenko said English fans would be safe and would enjoy visa-free travel as guests of the country.