The 32-year-old prince, who will meet Donald Trump at the White House on Tuesday, said that Saudis had “come a very long way and have a short way to go” to roll back laws which have restricted Saudi women for decades. 
“The laws are very clear and stipulated in the laws of sharia: that women wear decent, respectful clothing, like men,” the prince said. “This, however, does not particularly specify a black abaya or a black head cover. The decision is entirely left for women to decide what type of decent and respectful attire she chooses to wear.”
Black abayas, a loose fitting robe, are not mandatory for women in Saudi Arabia but they are so widely worn that they are strongly associated with the conservative kingdom. The prince’s comments will be taken as a sign of his ambitions to further ease Saudi Arabia’s social laws and customs.
The meeting between Prince Mohammed and Mr Trump will be their first face to face encounter since the prince usurped his older cousin to become Saudi Arabia’s heir to the throne last June. 
He is considered one of the most powerful men in the Middle East and may potentially rule Saudi Arabia for decades once he takes power from his frail 82-year-old father King Salman. “Only death” would stop his reformist mission, the prince said. 
A group of Democrat and Republican senators are attempting to halt US support to Saudi Arabia in the war in Yemen, where Saudi-led coalition is bombing a rebel group aligned with Iran. 
The war has killed 10,000 civilians and left millions on the brink of famine, with human rights groups blaming Saudi Arabia for much of the suffering. Both the US and UK supply Saudi Arabia with weapons and other support. 
“Saudi Arabia has failed to take basic steps that would signal its commitment to use nuclear energy solely for peaceful purposes,” said Edward Markey, a Democrat senator. 
Prince Mohammed has said previously that Saudi Arabia would develop a nuclear bomb if its arch-rival Iran was allowed to get one. Analysts have warned that a nuclear arms race between Iran and Saudi Arabia would be a major source of instability in the Middle East. 
Austin bomber could be carrying out 'trial run' for bigger attack as new blast raises fears in Texas area
Guernsey could become first place in British Isles to have a suicide clinic with vote on assisted dying laws
Essay mill websites must warn students about risks of submitting fake work, advertising watchdog rules
Drugs to vaccinate over-50s against Alzheimer’s could be here in a decade...with a £ 9bn price tag
Corbyn and McCluskey tighten grip on Labour party as ally Jennie Formby appointed party's new general secretary
Russian agents learn from Litvinenko errors to devise hit on Sergei Skripal that leaves police baffled
The Great Celebrity Bake Off, episode 3, review: Jamie Laing, heir to the McVitie's fortune, bakes the worst cake ever 
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.