
        The Institute for Science and International Security looked into a 2015 report alleging that Syria was building another reactor – publishing their findings a day after Israel claimed responsibility for 2007 attack
    

                                                                                                        No longer a secret: How Israel destroyed Syria's nuclear reactor
                                                            

                                                                                                        The intelligence failure: It took years for Israel to discover Syria's reactor
                                                            

                                                                                                        'The atmosphere was tense': Inside the first briefings about Syria’s secret North Korean nuclear reactor
                                                            
According to Der Spiegel, a new underground facility was launched in the center of a mountain into which a tunnel network had been dug. Located in a remote, rugged region near Qusayr in western Syria, the facility was said to be connected to a power plant and a water source for cooling.
                                                    
Experts who viewed satellite photos told the magazine the facility was meant for uranium enrichment. The Syrians had transferred 8,000 fuel rods to the facility, Der Spiegel added.
                                                    
“Based on commercial satellite imagery, none of these claims could be confirmed, and the purpose of the site remains unknown,” the think tank wrote.
                                                    
“However, some imagery observations are consistent with Der Spiegel’s reporting. Although we fully understand the limitations and risks of the following approach, we believe that this site warrants inspection by the International Atomic Energy Agency, even though accomplishing such inspections may have to wait until the Syrian conflict ends."
                                                    
As the think tank put it, “a nuclear reactor located fully underground is not impossible, but it poses a huge engineering challenge and would likely require secret, on-going assistance from North Korea.
                                                    
“Similarly, an enrichment plant would require extensive foreign assistance, likely from North Korea or possibly from Iran, since there is no available evidence of Syria buying the necessary equipment and materials from abroad. In any case, learning the purpose of this site should be a priority. A visit by the IAEA makes sense, even though accomplishing that may have to wait until the Syrian conflict ends.”
                                                    
It added: “Any nuclear-related facility in Syria could involve considerable assistance from North Korea, given that Pyongyang provided extensive assistance in the construction of the Al Kibar reactor, which Israel destroyed in 2007.”
                                                    
The think tank also warned about the possibility that Syria was storing materials from the destroyed site. “An enduring mystery ... is the fate of key remnants of the reactor project, such as stockpiles of natural uranium, fuel fabrication capabilities, and even possibly plutonium separation capabilities that may have remained in Syria and continue to pose a proliferation risk,” it wrote.
                                                    
The authors added that “Israel’s action serves to highlight once again the lack of accounting for Syria’s past nuclear weapons program and the location of any assets remaining from that program.”
                                                    
They concluded: “Understanding North Korea’s role in Syria is also important as the United States weighs the prospects of negotiations with North Korea."
                                                    

                                    Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in
                                    accordance with site policy.
                                

									If you would like to be notified when your comment is published,
									please fill in your email address in the form below.
								

				The Smoking Gun in Vienna, The Ominous Call From Bush: How Israel Destroyed Syria's Nuclear Reactor 
			
'Israelis Didn't Want to See Palestinians as Human Beings': Why This Reporter Felt Rejected by Israel 
How Julie Fisher Went From U.S. Ambassador’s Wife to Ambassador for Israel’s Embattled Asylum Seekers 

				Iran, Syria and Saudi Arabia: Top Three Stunning Admissions From the Top U.S. General in the Middle East 
			

										A Jew, an Early Christian and a Roman Meet in Archaeological Park to Be Built on Evacuated Prison 
			

										'Man, She's Pretty': Behind Syrian Rebels' Gruesome Murder of a Female Kurdish Fighter 
			
Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.