Russia's President is "not worried" about UK countermeasures and the nerve agent attack "is just the beginning", warns one expert.
A respected expert on Russia has told Sky News that Vladimir Putin is laughing at Britain's latest response to the Salisbury poisoning.
Yuri Felshtinsky, who co-authored a book with Alexander Litvinenko before his assassination on the orders of the Kremlin, says Britain is exposing itself to the risk of more attacks directed by President Putin.
After the tit-for-tat expulsion of 23 British diplomats from Moscow, the Government says it will use existing laws and draw up new ones to go after the financial assets of Putin's billionaire associates in the UK if they can be proven to be acquired through corruption.
"Do not take their property," he told Sky News. "Do not take their accounts, take the whole of Britain from them. Ban them from entering the country."
President Putin's cronies use Britain as a sanctuary, he says, so barring them access to that refuge is the ultimate sanction.
"And this is very easy to achieve. You simply have to revoke visas to revoke dual citizenship and to revoke permanent residency permits."
"If you then get a general agreement of NATO countries that they will do the same, then you will take the whole regime of Putin down very quickly and without blood," he says.
The suspicion is ministers are avoiding any measures that might lead to an exodus of Russian money, however corrupt, out of Britain.
Whether or not the Government has done enough to deter Russia in the future is a pressing question because the next attack might not be against one or two Russians whiling away a quiet Sunday in a sleepy Wilthsire town.
He has the ability to bring the NHS to its knees with cyberwarfare, or part of the national power grid, or a water supply company.
If President Putin judges the UK's response to the attack to have been weak he may be emboldened in the future.
"I think he is not worried," says Mr Felshtinsky, "because I'm afraid very much that what he is doing for now is just the first step.
"We don't have to think that that is where he is going to end. He is escalating, he is going further into crisis, this not the end of the story, this is just the beginning."