""He's from a family that is so tight, that works so hard to raise their children correctly. It's just horrible.""

                        West Bank teen, Ahed Tamimi, gets eight months in prison
                    
""Currently, more than 180 children are held in detention without having been convicted. Under the occupation, children can be held for one and a half years before their case goes to trial.""
"There is a risk that Putin will read congratulatory messages from Western leaders like European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and US President Donald Trump as a plea for a return to business as usual."
"“Instead of engaging on the substantive concern, Russia has sought to confuse the picture with at best misleading procedural arguments.""
""He's from a family that is so tight, that works so hard to raise their children correctly. It's just horrible.""

                        West Bank teen, Ahed Tamimi, gets eight months in prison
                    
""Currently, more than 180 children are held in detention without having been convicted. Under the occupation, children can be held for one and a half years before their case goes to trial.""
"There is a risk that Putin will read congratulatory messages from Western leaders like European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and US President Donald Trump as a plea for a return to business as usual."
"“Instead of engaging on the substantive concern, Russia has sought to confuse the picture with at best misleading procedural arguments.""
The United States will not apply new steel and aluminium tariffs to the European Union, but China will be taxed.
US President Donald Trump has signed a presidential memorandum aiming to slap tariffs on some $60 billion in Chinese imports over forced transfer of intellectual property.
"I've been speaking with the highest Chinese representatives, including the president, and I've asked them to reduce the trade deficit immediately by 100-billion dollars," said Trump.
"So that would be anywhere from 25 percent, depending on the way you figure, to maybe even something more than that, but we have to do that," he added in reference to America's 375-billion goods trade deficit with Beijing.
The directive will open a consultation period by the US Trade Representative's office to look at a list of some 1,300 mainly high-tech Chinese products that could be targeted.
Everett Eissenstat, deputy director of the National Economic Council, earlier told reporters that Trump will also direct the US Treasury to propose measures that could restrict Chinese investments in the US.
European Union leaders gave a cautious welcome to the news that European steel and aluminium was to be exempt from US tariffs, but said they were awaiting confirmation from Washington.
Germany's DPA news agency reports the exemption will also apply to other trading partners currently negotiating to avoid extra liabilities.
The news has been warmly welcomed by Germany's BGA trade association. In a statement, its chief Holger Bingmann described the decision as a "triumph of reason."

                                                        Former Playboy model sues Trump over hush deal
                                  

                                                        Trump hails arms sales to Saudi as he hosts Crown Prince
                                  

                                                        President Trump calls for death penalty for drug dealers
                                  

                                                        Bill Murray: The Parkland kids remind me of those who protested Vietnam
                                  

                                                        The Euronews interview that is key to the investigation into Nicolas Sarkozy
                                  

                                                        This is the world's most complex border situation
                                  

                                                                                                                                      