
        U.S. ambassador to Israel suggests Abbas' remarks against him were anti-Semitic ■ Palestinian president blames Hamas for attempt on PM's life, while Gaza group rips Abbas for dealing death blow to Palestinian unity
    

                                                                                                        White House to Abbas: Time to choose between hateful rhetoric and peace efforts
                                                            

                                                                                                        U.S. rebukes ambassador to Israel: 'No policy shift' regarding occupied territories
                                                            

                                                                                                        The hatred and mistrust that’s killing Palestinian unity
                                                            

                                                                                                        Why the attempt on the Palestinian PM's life may accelerate reconciliation with Hamas
                                                            
"Son of a dog. They [the settlers] are building on their land? You are a settler and your family are settlers," Abbas said of Friedman in a speech in Ramallah.
                                                    
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu also responded to Abbas' remarks. "Abu Mazen's assault on the U.S. ambassador, David Friedman, says everything," Netanyahu said using Abbas' nickname. "For the first time in dozens of years the American administration has stopped pampering the Palestinian leaders Apparently the shock from the truth made them lose their heads."
                                                    
"They made a conference about Gaza, but only now do they claim to recognize that Gazans are suffering, and we've been talking for 11 years already. The U.S. and Israel bear responsibility for the Hamas's takeover of the Gaza strip," Abbas said.   
                                                    
Hamdallah and Palestinian security chief Majid Faraj were uninjured when a roadside bomb exploded as they entered the Gaza Strip on their way to a ceremony in the enclave that is dominated by the Hamas faction and is a rival of Abbas's Fatah faction.
                                                    
"We give congratulate the two big brothers [Hamdallah and Faraj] that they are safe after the sinful and despicable attack that was carried out against them by the Hamas movement in the Gaza Strip," Abbas said.
                                                    
Abbas said he ordered commanders and security forces not to harm any Gazans in relation to the attempted assassination. "We could've arrested twenty people and executed them in the square, but we – we have patience, we have responsibility, unlike Hamas," he said.
                                                    
Regarding reconciliation efforts between Hamas and the PA, Abbas said either the PA would bear all responsibility for what happens in Gaza, or "Hamas will suffer" the consequences for the coup they insinuated.
                                                    
In a statement, Hamas harshly criticized Abbas’ accusations. “What Abbas is doing doesn’t constitute a blow solely to Hamas but to the entire Palestinian people and constitutes a mortal blow to the efforts at reconciliation and the advancement of the Palestinian national interest.”
                                                    
According to the group, Abbas’ address, “increases the chances of separating the Strip from the West Bank in an effort to cause chaos that will pave the wave for Trump’s deal and Israel plans.” Hamas called on all the Palestinian factions and the Arab League to intervene in Abbas’ policy, “To prevent deterioration and escalation that is liable to be disastrous for the Palestinian people.”
                                                    

                                    Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in
                                    accordance with site policy.
                                

									If you would like to be notified when your comment is published,
									please fill in your email address in the form below.
								
Arab Citizens Tried to Buy Land in This Israeli Town. The Mayor Halted the Sale to Uphold Its 'Jewish-Zionist Nature' 

				Iran, Syria and Saudi Arabia: Top Three Stunning Admissions From the Top U.S. General in the Middle East 
			

										A Jew, an Early Christian and a Roman Meet in Archaeological Park to Be Built on Evacuated Prison 
			

										'Man, She's Pretty': Behind Syrian Rebels' Gruesome Murder of a Female Kurdish Fighter 
			
Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.