15 years after the invasion of Iraq, and now largely out of the glare of the media, US and UK oil corporations start to flaunt the spoils of imperial conquest.
John McCain and other neocons, who’ve spent a lifetime lobbying to nuke Iran back to the stone age, are suddenly filled with opportunistic concern for ordinary Iranians.
Israel experiment with unmanned drones as crowd control instruments, dropping tear gas on Palestinian demonstrators.
Noam Chomsky and Jill Stein lead support for an end to foreign electoral meddling… by the US concerning Venezuela.
Turkey have slaughtered 165 Kurdish civilians including 32 children since the start of the UN Syrian ceasefire.
Military-industrial panties drop and financial regulations weaken as rockstar war criminal Mohammad Bin Salman arrives in the UK.
Ahed Tamimi’s cousin was beaten into ‘confessing’ that half of his skull was lost in a bicycle accident rather than from an Israeli rubber bullet.
The UK, aware of authoritarian Erdogan’s targeting of political dissidents, still granted several licenses to export surveillance equipment to Turkey in 2017.
Wikileaks cables wrongly proscribed from court case that saw Chagos refugees denied the right to return to their homeland
Israel experiment with unmanned drones as crowd control instruments, dropping tear gas on Palestinian demonstrators.

			Israel experiment with unmanned drones as crowd control instruments, dropping tear gas on Palestinian demonstrators.			
Israel deployed unmanned drones to drop tear gas on Palestinian protesters for the first time on the 9th of March 2018 in an unprovoked attack on the militarised Gaza border.
The Lebanese press outlet Al-Mayadeen reported that a crowd of dozens of Palestinians protesting their occupation in front of the Gaza-Israel barrier fled the scene as tear gas canisters fell from UAVs.
The State of Israel have long marketed themselves as the Samsung of emerging militaristic technologies, treating global cable news footage of efficient IDF slaughter as a free advertisement of their instruments to authoritarian regimes around the world.
Benjamin Ben Eliezer, a former defence minister turned industry minister, attributes Israel’s huge arms industry to the fact that ‘people like to buy things that have been tested’, he told Al Jazeera.’ If Israel sells weapons, they have been tested, tried out. We can say we’ve used this 10 years, 15 years.”
Needless to say, Israel are the global tastemakers when it comes to weapons, and many of the world’s most iconic violent devices first strut their stuff on the Jerusalem catwalk. The Uzi submachine gun was designed for IDF use in the 1956 Suez Campaign, remaining relatively unloved for couple of decades as a favoured tool of South African and Rhodesian apartheid militias, before going mainstream in US culture in the 80s as a symbol of the Miami drug wars. Largely omitted from Scarface tales of Cocaine trafficking and gang violence was the flow of Israeli weapons to South and Central American cartels.
Similar stories are heard in a variety of weapons technology coups: surface-to-air guided missiles, mine-protected armoured vehicles – both developed and perfected in Israel before becoming US army staples and ultimately finding their way into the hands of the worst of us through the black market.
Israel’s dominant position at the summit of UAV technology should therefore serve some indication of the direction of futuristic warfare and policing. 45% of the global industry belongs to Tel Aviv, and it’s rapidly growing.
Given Israel’s status as weapons mavericks and influencers, and the rapid growth of UAVs designed specifically for ‘crowd control’ purposes or at least with modular capabilities, it is surely a question of when, not if, we see these techniques used at Standing Rock or Occupy demonstrations on the streets of London?
Ahed Tamimi’s cousin was beaten into ‘confessing’ that half of his skull was lost in a bicycle accident rather than from an Israeli rubber bullet.
It was wonderful to meet with American Muslims for Palestine @amp today to talk about my bill, H.R. 4391, which promotes human rights by ending Israel's military detention of Palestinian children. Learn more → https://t.co/oCEpslsyaE 