
                                                    BC
                                                

                                                    Alberta
                                                

                                                    Meanwhile in Canada
                                                

                                                    Entertainment
                                                

                                                    Arts
                                                

                                                    World
                                                

                                                    Canada 150
                                                

                                                    Justin Trudeau
                                                

                                                    NDP Leadership
                                                

                                                    Follow Up Podcast
                                                

                                                    Electoral Reform
                                                

                                                    US Politics
                                                

                                                    Real Estate
                                                

                                                    Economy
                                                

                                                    The Home Stretch
                                                

                                                    Money Hacks
                                                

                                                    Style
                                                

                                                    Born and Raised
                                                

                                                    What's Working
                                                

                                                    The Quick Fix
                                                

                                                    Urban Wellness
                                                

                                                    Impact
                                                

                                                    Alyson Schafer
                                                

                                                    Baby Names
                                                

                                                    Like A Tourist
                                                

                                                    2 Minutes To Transform
                                                

                                                    Salute
                                                

                                                    Build
                                                

                                                    Young Money
                                                

                                                    Sponsored: VU
                                                

                                                    Blog Voices
                                                

                                                    BC
                                                

                                                    Alberta
                                                

                                                    World
                                                

                                                    US Politics
                                                

                                                    US Business
                                                

                                                    Sports
                                                

                                                    Tech
                                                

                                                    Highline
                                                

                                                    Style
                                                

                                                    Healthy Living
                                                

                                                    Taste
                                                

                                                    Relationships
                                                

                                                    Entertainment
                                                

                                                    Celebrity
                                                

                                                    Arts + Culture
                                                

                                                    Movies
                                                

                                                    Comedy
                                                

                                                    Black Voices
                                                

                                                    Women
                                                

                                                    Queer Voices
                                                

                                                    Latino Voices
                                                

                                                    Fifty
                                                

                                                    Impact
                                                

                                                    Quebec (French)
                                                

                                                    Arabi
                                                

                                                    Australia
                                                

                                                    Brasil
                                                

                                                    Deutschland
                                                

                                                    España
                                                

                                                    France
                                                

                                                    Greece
                                                

                                                    India
                                                

                                                    Italia
                                                

                                                    Japan
                                                

                                                    Korea
                                                

                                                    Maghreb
                                                

                                                    México
                                                

                                                    South Africa
                                                

                                                    United Kingdom
                                                

                                                    United States
                                                

                        Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer, left, is seen as a better steward of the economy among Canadians when compared to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, according to a new poll from the Angus Reid Institute.
                    
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's disapproval rating among Canadians has jumped above the 50 per cent mark for the first time since the 2015 election, according to a new poll.
If an election was held tomorrow, the poll said, 40 per cent of respondents who were decided or leaning voters would back the Tories while 30 per cent would opt for the Liberals. Nineteen per cent said they would vote for Jagmeet Singh's NDP.
The poll also found another possible bad omen for the federal Liberals. Fifty-one per cent of respondents — an all-time high — say it's time for a change in government.
Though that view is strongest among previous Conservative voters, ARI noted, 23 per cent of respondents who voted for the Liberals in 2015 also agreed with that statement.
That shift in the Liberal's base seems to be a key factor in the slip in popularity for Trudeau and the party, the polling firm said. While a majority of the Grit base still approves of the PM, 31 per cent of respondents who voted for the Liberals in 2015 now say they disapprove of the party's leader.
The polling firm's results suggest the Liberal Party's voter retention is weaker than the Tories'. Fifty-eight per cent of its past supporters say they would vote for the Grits again, according to the poll, compared to 86 per cent of the Conservative Party's past voters. Fifty-three per cent of respondents who voted for the NDP in 2015 would do the same in the next election.
The Conservative leader, who was elected to his party's helm last May, is seen as a stronger leader on issues such as crime, relations with the provinces, health care and the economy, the latter being the most important issue in Canada today to 26 per cent of respondents.
But despite the drop in Trudeau's approval rating, Scheer is still not considered the leader who would make the best prime minister.
Twenty-six per cent of respondents said Trudeau would make the best PM, while 22 opted for Scheer. Only seven per cent chose Singh.
While 38 per cent of respondents said they approved of Scheer, 34 per cent said they disapproved and 28 per cent said they "don't know."
The Tory leader also doesn't have the support of the majority of millennials, a key demographic that helped push the Liberals to a majority government in 2015. Fifty-five per cent of that group still approves of the PM, the firm said.
ARI's survey was conducted online between March 6-15 among a sample of 5,423 Canadian adults. The firm said a similar survey would carry a margin of error of plus or minus 2 per cent, 19 times out of 20.

                                                                                                            

                                            Copyright © 2018 TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc.
                                    

                                            "The Huffington Post" is a registered trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc. All rights reserved.
                                    