Residents in Far North Queensland are being warned to prepare their homes as a cyclone moves towards the Gulf of Carpentaria.
Stephen Boyd will serve a minimum non-parole period of 25 years, 6 months for the 2016 murder of his former partner Tina Kontozis.
Passengers are packing their suitcases to board the first ever non-stop commercial flight from Australia to Europe.
A former Playboy model said she was in love with Donald Trump during an alleged 10-month romantic relationship with him 12 years ago.
A police Taser that failed to prevent a young knife-wielding woman charging at officers at a Sydney fast-food restaurant hadn't been fully tested in six years.
Brianna Ashanti Lofton, 20, was arrested after videos of her child puffing on small cigar, surfaced online. 
The eastern Mediterranean, and in particular Crete Island, is choking under a layer of Saharan dust blown in by strong warm southerly winds which is turning the very air a dusty red colour.
The victim of an alleged home invasion in Melbourne last week has spoken of the moment that he claims four young men smashed their way through his home.
Last year's government crackdown on interchange fee regulations saw a number of financial institutions slashing their rewards programs.
A family who claim their neighbour has set up mirrors to beam the sun's rays into their house have also alleged they have been "stalked and harrassed" as the conflict reaches the courts.
Despite breaking down barriers in our country’s most celebrated summer sport, Australian test cricketer Usman Khawaja says he’s been forced to face vile racism in his pursuit of sporting glory.
The latest victim to break their silence on Hollywood predator Harvey Weinstein has revealed to 60 Minutes how the movie mogul manipulated and groomed his victims.
A mother accused of helping her one-year-old daughter smoke marijuana has been ordered to stay away from the baby while the case is pending.

Brianna Ashanti Lofton, 20, of North Carolina, appeared in court for the first time after videos of the baby puffing on a small cigar surfaced online, prompting her arrest.

One of the videos, which was watched 1.5 million times, showed the hand of an adult off-screen who appears to hold the cigarillo to the one-year-old’s lips.
One of the videos showed the hand of an adult off-screen who appears to hold a small cigar to the child's lips. (Facebook)
"Big thanks to everyone who posted information about the smoking mother and baby," Raleigh Police officials told their Facebook followers in a post.

"Thanks to your willingness to get involved, the child is now safe and the mother is in police custody."

Police confirmed officials were referring to the child seen in the video, arresting Lofton on Wednesday.

She is facing charges of child abuse, marijuana possession and contributing to the delinquency of a minor.

She is facing charges of child abuse, marijuana possession and contributing to the delinquency of a minor. (ABC America)
According to an arrest warrant, Lofton inflicted harm by having the child inhale marijuana smoke from a blunt more than once over a two-month period.

During today's brief court appearance, a judge set Lofton’s bond at US $100,000 and ordered her to have no contact with her daughter during the case.

The court also heard she has faced several misdemeanour charges, including assault and marijuana possession, ABC News reports.
