A video grab from footage broadcast by the UK Parliament shows Britain's Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson giving evidence before the Foreign Affairs Committee at Parliament in London on March 21, 2018

                                                                                                        New Cold War? What the future holds for Russia, its allies and its foes
                                                            

                                                                                                        Briefing papers warned Trump: ‘DO NOT CONGRATULATE’ Putin - but he did anyway
                                                            

                                                                                                        Putin to attend 2018 inauguration of Turkish nuclear power plant
                                                            
"Your characterisation of what is going to happen in Moscow in the World Cup, in all the venues - yes, I think the comparison with 1936 is certainly right," Johnson replied during a question and answer session with lawmakers.
                                                    
The U.K. and Russia are curently in the middle of a diplomatic row, which saw both countries expelling diplomats after the British alleged Russia poisoned a former-spy in the U.K. with a deadly nerve agent. The timing of an attack using military-grade nerve agent against a former Russian spy in England was probably connected to the weekend election won by President Vladimir Putin, British foreign minister Boris Johnson said on Wednesday.
                                                    
"The timing (of the attack in Salisbury) is probably more closely connected with the recent election in Russia," he told a committee of lawmakers.
                                                    
"And as many non-democratic figures do when facing an election or facing some critical political moment, it is often attractive to conjure up in the public imagination the notion of an enemy."
                                                    

                                    Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in
                                    accordance with site policy.
                                

									If you would like to be notified when your comment is published,
									please fill in your email address in the form below.
								

				The Smoking Gun in Vienna, The Ominous Call From Bush: How Israel Destroyed Syria's Nuclear Reactor 
			
'Israelis Didn't Want to See Palestinians as Human Beings': Why This Reporter Felt Rejected by Israel 
How Julie Fisher Went From U.S. Ambassador’s Wife to Ambassador for Israel’s Embattled Asylum Seekers 

				Iran, Syria and Saudi Arabia: Top Three Stunning Admissions From the Top U.S. General in the Middle East 
			

										A Jew, an Early Christian and a Roman Meet in Archaeological Park to Be Built on Evacuated Prison 
			

										'Man, She's Pretty': Behind Syrian Rebels' Gruesome Murder of a Female Kurdish Fighter 
			
Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.