US to give $2.5M to assist with Venezuelan refugees stranded across border | McClatchy Washington Bureau
In this Feb. 21, 2018 photo, Venezuelans cross the International Simon Bolivar bridge into the Colombia. As Venezuela's economic crisis worsens, rising numbers are fleeing in a burgeoning refugee crisis that could soon match the flight of Syrians from the war-torn Middle East. 
In this Feb. 21, 2018 photo, Venezuelans cross the International Simon Bolivar bridge into the Colombia. As Venezuela's economic crisis worsens, rising numbers are fleeing in a burgeoning refugee crisis that could soon match the flight of Syrians from the war-torn Middle East. 
 The Trump administration will provide $2.5 million in humanitarian aid for Venezuelan refugees who have fled into Colombian border towns fleeing poverty and oppression.
The extra money, provided through the U.S. Agency for International Development, will provide emergency food and health assistance as the Colombian government struggles to provide necessary medical and social services, said Mark Green, USAID administrator.
“The influx of hundreds of thousands of Venezuelans has strained the medical and social services of Colombian border communities and others throughout the Western Hemisphere,” Green said. “Regrettably, this crisis in Venezuela, which is now spilling into the broader region, is man-made — the result of continued political mismanagement and corruption by the Maduro regime.”
The United Nations has warned of an unfolding humanitarian crisis on the Colombia-Venezuela border and has called on international governments to help Colombia and other neighbors. More than 600,000 Venezuelans have fled into Colombia to escape economic uncertainty and a political crackdown. 
The European Union on Monday also announced that it will provide an additional $2.6 million to help Colombia deal with the migrant crisis as part of a larger package that includes support for victims of the country’s decades-old armed conflict.
The U.S. funding will be distributed through the Colombian government, Pan American Health Organization and United Nations World Food Program. 
It’s unclear what type of congressional support the additional funding will have. But a similar measure introduced by Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, R-Fl., and Eliot Engel, D-NY, the ranking Democrat on the House Foreign Relations Committee, to instruct USAID to provide humanitarian assistance to the Venezuelan people handedly passed the House in December. 
Ros-Lehtinen and Engel called the USAID funding a “welcome start” and encouraged South American allies to provide similar aid. 
“It is long past time for the international community to step up and provide much-needed food and medicine to the countless Venezuelans who continue to suffer both inside and outside of the country,” they said in a statement.
Sen. Bob Menendez, D-N.J., ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, called for a donors summit to help coordinate the international response. 
“The idea is to keep them near the border so that when democracy is restored, they can go home,” Palmieri said. 

                                        On trial for causing climate change, oil companies don’t plan to deny it’s happening
                                    

                                        Cities want supervised injection sites to cut overdoses — risk DEA wrath
                                    

                                        Vulnerable House Republicans craft an immigration plan
                                    

                                        President Trump issues new sanctions against Venezuelan digital currency
                                    

                                        Do pregnancy centers run by abortion foes have to provide information about abortion?
                                    