
        The 32-year-old crown prince also has big economic plans, and over three weeks in the U.S. he will meet businessmen in New York, tech mavens from Google and Apple Inc.
    
Jeremy Piven, whose character in "Entourage" is based on Ari Emanuel arrives at the premiere of the seventh season of the HBO series in Los Angeles, Wednesday, June 16, 2010

                                                                                                        'I was never tortured:' World's richest Arab reveals secret deal with Saudi government
                                                            

                                                                                                        As Saudi prince visits D.C., Senate to vote on ending Trump's military support for Yemen bombings
                                                            

                                                                                                        As Saudi prince visits D.C., Senate to vote on ending Trump's military support for Yemen bombings
                                                            
The purchase comes a week after Goldman Sachs announced plans to deploy its own money in the kingdom for the first time.
                                                    
The purchase closed on March 19, a day before MBS  and U.S. President Donald Trump meet at the White House.  MBS is scheduled to be the guest of honor at a Los Angeles dinner hosted by Endeavor Chief Executive Officer Ari Emanuel in early April.
                                                    
The visit comes as the United States and much of the West are still trying to figure out Prince Mohammed whose sweeping program of social changes at home and increased Saudi assertiveness abroad has upended decades of traditional rule in Saudi Arabia. The 32-year-old crown prince also has big economic plans, and over three weeks in the U.S. he will meet businessmen in New York, tech mavens from Google and Apple Inc. in San Francisco, and entertainment bigwigs in Los Angeles. Other stops include Boston and Houston.
                                                    
“This is not the real Saudi Arabia,” Prince Mohammed said when asked by CBS News about the repressive version of Islam many outsiders associate with the kingdom. He said he was restoring the more tolerant, egalitarian society that existed before Saudi Arabia’s ultraconservatives were empowered in 1979. “We were victims, especially my generation that suffered from this a great deal.”
                                                    

                                    Your comment was successfully submitted and will be published in
                                    accordance with site policy.
                                

									If you would like to be notified when your comment is published,
									please fill in your email address in the form below.
								
Arab Citizens Tried to Buy Land in This Israeli Town. The Mayor Halted the Sale to Uphold Its 'Jewish-Zionist Nature' 

				Iran, Syria and Saudi Arabia: Top Three Stunning Admissions From the Top U.S. General in the Middle East 
			

										A Jew, an Early Christian and a Roman Meet in Archaeological Park to Be Built on Evacuated Prison 
			

										'Man, She's Pretty': Behind Syrian Rebels' Gruesome Murder of a Female Kurdish Fighter 
			
Haaretz.com, the online edition of Haaretz Newspaper in Israel, and analysis from Israel and the Middle East. Haaretz.com provides extensive and in-depth coverage of Israel, the Jewish World and the Middle East, including defense, diplomacy, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the peace process, Israeli politics, Jerusalem affairs, international relations, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, the Israeli business world and Jewish life in Israel and the Diaspora.