
																				GTH continues failing grades on land-sale revenue, government says too ...									

						A Regina doctor was penalized more than $10,000 for his response to a family concerned he had botched their son's circumcision.
A Regina doctor has been ordered to pay more than $10,000 after a circumcision went wrong and then, according to the province’s medical college, he “misadvised” parents by claiming everything was fine.
In April 2014, Dr. Zimran Chowdhary circumcised the infant, referred to only as “J.T.” in a decision from the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan. In the decision published last week, the college said  he “failed to deal appropriately with the complications associated with the surgery.”
The college did not reveal exactly what the complications involved, but they quoted a memo from Chowdhary to another doctor where he stated the parents were concerned that skin had fused to the head of J.T.’s penis.
Bryan Salte, associate registrar of the college, told the Leader-Post the boy was born with “abnormalities” which caused the complications. He said that a circumcision should not have been performed in the first place.
When reached for comment, Chowdhary confirmed that anatomical differences were at the root of the problem.
Salte said the error could have easily been made by other physicians. The issue was the way Chowdhary dealt with his mistake.
The parents became worried about the complications, and took their son to another physician, who expressed “concerns” about the circumcision. The parents then returned J.T. to Chowdhary for another consultation in October 2014.
The doctor denied that there had been any mistake. He claimed that the condition was normal and noted that the circumcision appeared to have healed well.
“Following your examination of J.T. you advised his parents that J.T. would grow out his condition and that no further surgery would be needed, or used words of similar meaning,” the college said.
“It needed corrective surgery and there was a fairly significant amount of corrective surgery that was required,” he said. “Based upon our information, misadvising the parents about the concerns was the nature of the charge.”
On March 16, the college formally reprimanded Chowdhary and ordered him to pay the full costs of the investigation and hearing. That totalled $10,051.
But Chowdhary continues to maintain that he was unaware of the problem when he provided inaccurate information to the parents in October. Salte said it’s difficult to determine whether he misled the parents knowingly or unknowingly.
“Thats always a difficult thing, when wrong information has been given. Is it wrong information because someone was careless? Is it wrong information because it’s covering up?” he said. “Or is it wrong information for some other reason.”
“It wasn’t covering up the mistake, no,” he said. “It was just that I didn’t recognize it at the time.”

		As people arrived for Michelle Obama's talk in Saskatoon, they spoke with The StarPhoenix about why they wanted to see the former first lady.					

		A woman said to have been inside the house where Justin Crowe was fatally stabbed testified she has no memory of the night's events.					

		Dylan Morin will be one of four transit trainers who hope to help the city ease pressure on the Regina Paratransit system by teaching new skills.					