FILE - In this March 2, 2018 file photo, Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro smiles while answering a journalist's question, at the National Electoral Council in Caracas, Venezuela. Maduro announced in a state television broadcast Thursday, March 23, that he’s tackling the country’s staggering inflation by lopping three zeros off the increasingly worthless bolivar currency. (AP Photo/Ariana Cubillos, File)

New bills replacing those like the current 100,000 note — worth less than 50 U.S. cents on the commonly used black market — should begin circulating June 4, he said.

The move comes as Venezuelans struggle to find food, medicine and cash in the worst economic crisis ever to strike the oil-rich country.

A cash shortage has spiked as opposition lawmakers say the inflation rate has soared above 6,000 percent in the 12-month period ending in February. The economic crisis has left Venezuelans standing in lines for hours to buy common food items and withdraw small increments of scarce cash from ATM machines.

One kilogram (2.2 pounds) of sugar costs around 250,000 bolivars. Meanwhile, the monthly minimum wage is less than 400,000 bolivars, which along with a food bonus amounts to about $5.60 at the black market exchange rate.

Critics consider Maduro's plan a superficial solution with little chance at solving the deep economic problems plaguing Venezuela.

"Dropping three zeros from the currency without solving the problem driving hyperinflation will help nothing," tweeted Asdrubal Oliveros, a Caracas-based economist and director of the Ecoanalitica.

The issue of new currency by Maduro, who is seeking re-election this year, is the second in the last decade. In 2008, then-President Hugo Chavez employed a similar tactic to circumvent high inflation by eliminating three zeros.

Venezuela's new money will also include two coins along with eight paper bills from 2 bolivars to 500 bolivars, said Maduro, without detailing how Venezuelan banks will handle the conversion.

The current 100,000-bolivar note is the largest in circulation now and will have been in existence for less than a year by the time it becomes obsolete.

Maduro's government also in the middle of rolling out Venezuela's own form of bitcoin, the petro, in an attempt to outmaneuver crippling U.S. sanctions. The U.S. Treasury Department recently said it is illegal for American citizens to own Venezuela's digital currency.