The Self-Determination Movement party used three tear gas canisters in the Assembly building as the vote was due to start on Wednesday, forcing all politicians to leave the hall. 
The 120-seat parliament was expected to vote with the two-thirds needed to ratify the 2015 agreement. 
The Movement party claims the deal would see Kosovo lose 20,000 acres of its territory to its neighbour, though experts dispute this.
"[I] call on all MPs and all parties to go back to [the] Assembly to defeat such unacceptable practices that go against democratic society and the future of the Kosovo people. MPs, vote for the future, not for the past!"
Kosovo's opposition lawmakers release a teargas canister inside the country's parliament in Pristina.
Ratification of the border agreement between Kosovo and Montenegro is set by European Union as the main condition before it will grant Kosovo nationals visa-free access to the Schengen area. 
A closer shot of Kosovo's opposition lawmakers releasing a teargas canister inside the country's parliament in Pristina.
The proposed land deal is a precondition set by the EU in order to give Kosovans the ability to travel freely inside the visa-free Schengen area. Montenegro has already approved the deal.
Kosovo declared independence from Serbia in 2008 - though this is not recognised by Belgrade - and hopes to qualify for EU membership in the future. 
In 2016, Kosovo signed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, a deal that will see Balkan nation aim to gradually integrate its policies in line with Europe's 28-member union.
Advertising helps fund our journalism and keep it truly independent. It helps to build our international editorial team, from war correspondents to investigative reporters, commentators to critics.
If you are Private Browsing in Firefox, "Tracking Protection" may cause the adblock notice to show. It can be temporarily disabled by clicking the "shield" icon in the address bar.
Then click the big power button to whitelist the current web site, and its state will be remembered next time you visit the web site.