Facebook Founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg speaks at the annual Facebook developers conference in San Jose, California, in 2017.
Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.
Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.
Zuckerberg laid out three steps that the company will take to prevent companies like Cambridge Analytica, the data firm used by the Trump campaign, from acquiring personal data. Facebook will begin an investigation into all apps that had access to user data before 2014, when the company changed what connected apps could access.
Facebook will also implement new restrictions on the data that apps are allowed to access, limiting them to use of a person's name, profile photo and email address.
Lastly, Facebook will introduce a new tool to make it easier for users to see which apps have access to their data and to revoke access to any apps they no longer wish to be connected to.
"As [Mark Zuckerberg] said, we know that this was a major violation of peoples' trust, and I deeply regret that we didn't do enough to deal with it," she wrote.
"This was a breach of trust between Kogan, Cambridge Analytica and Facebook," Zuckerberg wrote, referring to Cambridge University researcher Aleksandr Kogan. "But it was also a breach of trust between Facebook and the people who share their data with us and expect us to protect it. We need to fix that."
Zuckerberg's post had been strongly anticipated, as senior leadership at Facebook had been silent in the aftermath of the data breach news. The Cambridge Analytica incident brought new attention to how Facebook had previously allowed connected apps to take data from users that opted in, as well as data from the friends of those users.
Facebook has been under particular pressure to explain why the company did not notify users or the public that its data been used in a way that violated its terms of service. Facebook said on Friday that the company learned of the violation in 2015.
The lack of any public statement or appearance by Zuckerberg or Sandberg had led to growing questions about the company's response to the crisis. The hashtag "#WheresZuck" began to circulate on Twitter.
Get breaking news alerts and special reports. The news and stories that matter, delivered weekday mornings.