'Neglect and Bureaucracy': Six Months After Maria, Trump Condemned for Failed Response in Puerto Rico
A woman shields her face from the sun with a piece of wood, as residents wait to receive food and water, provided by FEMA, in a neighborhood without grid electricity or running water on Oct. 17, 2017 in San Isidro, Puerto Rico. (Photo: Mario Tama/Getty Images)
Six months after María things are not what they should be. Thousands still w/o electricity due to neglect and bureaucracy. Our lives matter!
While the Center for Puerto Rican Studies at Hunter College in New York estimates that about 135,000 Puerto Ricans fled to the mainland after Maria, those who stayed behind are far from prepared to battle another season of intense storms.
"I struggle to understand why the United States government continues to withhold the aid we were promised," Ortiz added. "We're tired of being treated like second-class citizens. The Trump administration must honor its commitment to Puerto Rico. Our hurricane-ravaged island may no longer be in the headlines, but we're still suffering, and we need help."
Rep. Ro Khanna (D-Calif.) as well as Sens. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) are among the federal lawmakers who are fighting for additional aid for Puerto Rico. They acknowledged the six-month anniversary by condemning the U.S. government's response so far and demanding more action by the Trump administration and Congress.
6 months after Hurricane Maria we are still seeing a humanitarian crisis with schools being closed and people struggling to get clean drinking water. 1 in 10 people in Puerto Rico still have no electricity – in the wealthiest nation on earth. That is a disgrace.
," noting that "Puerto Rico has received only a fraction of the financial assistance it requested from the federal government." Echoing demands she has made on Capitol Hill, Warren called on her colleagues to pass legislation that provides federal assistance for the island's battered 
"One dream is grounded in a desire for people to exercise collective sovereignty over their land, energy, food, and water; the other in a desire for a small elite to secede from the reach of government altogether, liberated to accumulate unlimited private profit," Klein explained.
"At the core of this battle," Klein noted, "is a very simple question: Who is Puerto Rico for? Is it for Puerto Ricans, or is it for outsiders? And after a collective trauma like Hurricane Maria, who has a right to decide?"
"It would be foolish for us to think that this is the last storm, that there aren't going to be other recurring extreme weather events," Yeampierre added, concluding that if recovery efforts properly account for long-term sustainability, Puerto Rico could be a model that enables the U.S. and the rest of the world to "start really thinking about how you prepare for the fact that climate change is here."
Despite Unprecedented Year of Extreme Weather, FEMA Ditches Every Single Mention of 'Climate' From Four-Year Strategic Plan
In Midst of 'Immense Suffering' Caused by Climate Crisis, Caribbean Religious Leaders Call for Debt Relief
As Students Demand End to NRA's Stranglehold, Group Says Stronger Democracy Key to Gun Control Victory
'No Justice Under Occupation': Palestinian Teenager Ahed Tamimi Gets 8 Months in Prison for Slapping Israeli Soldier
Demanding Real Gun Control Laws, Parkland Students Reject Mandatory Clear Backpacks That Make School Feel 'Like Jail'
In a move coinciding with the first anniversary of her imprisonment, Banksy has returned to New York after a five-year hiatus to paint a mural in honor of political prisoner Zehra Doğan, a Turkish/Kurdish painter and journalist sentenced to almost three years for painting a watercolor of a Kurdish city reduced to rubble by Turkish forces - an image, oddly , based on a photograph they themselves had proudly circulated. "They did it," she argued after her sentencing. "I just painted it."
Common Dreams has been providing breaking news & views for the progressive community since 1997. We are independent, non-profit, advertising-free and 100% reader supported.