Rights group investigation says military and police received at least five calls hours before the attack by gunmen. 
Relatives of missing schoolgirls react in Dapchi, in northeastern Yobe state, after February's mass abduction [Afolabi Sotunde/Reuters]
Nigeria's security forces failed to respond to warnings that armed men were on their way to a town where 110 schoolgirls were abducted last month, a human rights group alleged.
When the fighters later arrived in another village some residents called people in Dapchi to warn the convoy was headed their way, and one villager said he told the police.
"If the military disagrees let them come and say so," Bashir Manzo, the father of a 16-year-old schoolgirl abducted in the attack, told The Associated Press.
"If the military knew they were not going to act they should have informed us and we would have closed the school and asked all the girls to go home," Manzo said, adding parents have presented their information to the committee set up by Nigeria's president to investigate.
"There were security lapses which the military does not want to admit, but we shall speak the truth about what happened that day."
"Regrettably, no lessons appear to have been learned from the terrible events at Chibok four years ago," said Osai Ojigho, the group's Nigeria director.
"What happened in Dapchi is almost a carbon copy of what happened in Chibok, with the security forces failing to respond to warnings - and the same result for another hundred girls and their families."
Nigeria's President Muhammadu Buhari has called the mass abduction a "national disaster". The military withdrew from the town in January, saying the situation appeared to be calm there.
Parents and educators in Africa's most populous country have raised an outcry in response to the attack, demanding better security for schools in the vast region where Boko Haram has kidnapped thousands of people over nearly a decade.
Ninety-nine years since Balfour's "promise", Palestinians insist that their rights in Palestine cannot be dismissed.
In the rundown Pedion Areos Park, older men walk slowly by young asylum seekers before agreeing on a price for sex.