A social media post by Norway’s justice minister accusing the opposition Labour party of putting terrorists’ rights above national security has triggered a no-confidence vote that could bring down the country’s minority government.
A majority of MPs in parliament back Tuesday’s scheduled vote against Sylvi Listhaug, of the populist, anti-immigration Progress party, after widespread outrage at a Facebook post that she has since deleted. 
“Labour thinks the rights of terrorists are more important than the nation’s security. Like and share,” the minister wrote on 9 March beneath a photo of masked Islamist fighters dressed in combat fatigues, black scarves and ammunition belts. 
The minister took six days to take the post down and faced further criticism when her initial apology to MPs referred to a “communications” error rather than the offensive content of the post. She eventually made an unconditional apology, saying “of course it is not the case” that Labour was a threat to national security.
The prime minister, Erna Solberg, also apologised on the government’s behalf, saying Norway had a “special link” with terrorism and had to “pay special attention in discussing it”.
On Monday, the Christian Democrats joined the Centre party and five leftwing parties in saying it would support the no-confidence vote. 
“The national committee of the Christian Democrats has indicated it does not have confidence in Listhaug,” the party leader, Knut Arild Hareide, said after a four-hour meeting.
Hareide called on Solberg to take measures to avoid the potentially damaging vote, possibly by moving Listhaug to another cabinet post, an option the prime minister has so far ruled out. 
Sylvi Listhaug, who was poised to lose confidence vote over terrorism comment, complains of ‘witch-hunt’
Fisheries minister announces 28% increase, but environmentalists say steep drop in number of minkes killed is sign of a dying industry
‘It has become clear that there is a parliamentary majority in favour’ of proposal in belated response to 2011 massacre of 69 young people by neo-Nazi
The long-running series in which readers answer other readers’ questions on subjects ranging from trivial flights of fancy to profound scientific concepts