
                    Pope Francis will be the first pontiff to visit Ireland since 1979
                
Pope Francis is to visit Ireland in August - the first papal visit to the country for almost 40 years.
He will arrive in Dublin as the city hosts the World Meeting of Families, an international Catholic event which is staged every three years.
The last pontiff to visit the Republic of Ireland was Pope John Paul II.  He drew crowds of over 2.5m - more than half the state's population - in 1979.

                    Millions of people came to see Pope John Paul II when he visited Ireland in 1979
                
The director of the Holy See Press Office confirmed to BBC News NI the Pope's schedule would not include a visit to Northern Ireland.
Journalist Martin O'Brien, a columnist with The Irish Catholic newspaper, said the political impasse in Northern Ireland and the absence of a functioning executive were factors in the Pope's decision.
Recent clerical sex abuse allegations against deceased priest Fr Malachy Finegan may also have been a factor in the decision, added Mr O'Brien.
He will also take part in the Festival of Families in Croke Park, the headquarters of the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA). 
The announcement, which was widely expected, has been welcomed by the Catholic bishops in Ireland and by the Taoiseach (Irish Prime Minister), Leo Varadkar.
"While it is not a formal state visit, it will be a major event for Ireland, with a high degree of public participation and a high international profile," he said.
It is anticipated there will be protests by victims' groups angry that the Church has yet to redress their grievances.
Margaret McGuckin, who is leading calls for a special payment to child victims of abuse in Catholic residential homes in Northern Ireland, said the Pope has not done enough to help victims.
"People could get quite angry and irate that the Pope is still coming, I don't think it is a good time for him to come here."
It was once considered among the most conservative countries in Europe, where the Catholic Church wielded great power and influence over the state authorities.
In 2015, the Republic of Ireland became the first state in the world to make same-sex marriage legal by a popular vote.