Russia does present a threat through hybrid warfare, or the use of deniable acts of disruption – primarily cyber-attacks on the UK that could disrupt essential services or interference in the democratic process, such as in elections.
It is understood conversations over the coming weeks will include the UK making the case that countries should take similar action to expel Russian diplomats believed to be undisclosed intelligence agents, after the UK expelled 23 this week. Downing Street believes the expulsions have now severely limited Russia’s intelligence capacity and is understood to be considering further expulsions if further undisclosed intelligence agents are discovered.
However, emphasis is being placed by the official on curbing the Kremlin’s capacity to do harm, rather than escalating conflict. “It’s not that we are looking for some big confrontation with Russia, or that this is about ultimately regime change,” the official said. 
British officials have briefed allies about the precise composition of the nerve agent from the Novichok group for their own experts to assess.
Downing Street is not expecting a detailed list of actions member states will sign up to after the prime minister meets EU leaders. “This is a gradual process, it will take some time, it is a long-term challenge,” the No 10 official said. “Tomorrow is part of the process.”
Inspectors from the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons have begun working at the scene of the nerve agent attack on the Skripals, although they will be unlikely to report for at least a fortnight. 
On Wednesday, the Foreign Office released a social media video attacking Russia’s response to the chemical weapons attack, listing 17 separate explanations proposed by its state media or state spokespeople – including blaming the Skripals’ condition on an attempted suicide or accidental overdoses and pointing the finger at five other countries, including Ukraine and Sweden. Other theories have blamed Yulia Skripal’s future mother-in-law, or called the attack a false flag.
The meeting in Brussels is the latest phase of a diplomacy blitz by May and senior ministers to persuade states to back Britain’s judgment that the Russian state is responsible, prompting statements of support from 35 countries.
British officials are understood to have been in close contact with the Greek government, setting out their case in the run-up to the summit.
Putin, who has won a new presidential term, says Russia does not possess the military nerve agent allegedly used against Sergei and Yulia Skripal 