At a time when all eyes are on data privacy in Europe, and more globally, Facebook and how it and other large platforms have been tapped by third parties both to source data and to distribute content for questionable ends, you might wonder who OpenSignal’s app partners are, and how (and if) consumers are informed when OpenSignal is tapping their sensors for data.
Gill declined to name specific app partners, but said that the list is in the tens, not hundreds, of apps; and that they cover a broad range of areas like gaming, social networking and productivity in order to get “as average as possible” range of mobile uses as possible to find the most accurate, real-world mobile data speeds.
While there will always be people these days like to track how fast their networks work, it seems that this is not the main target audience for OpenSignal. It is carriers looking to improve their speeds especially against competitors (carriers, he says, are never partners on data collection itself, to help keep OpenSignal independent), with telcos in more than 20 countries now using its services to track speeds; regulators who are tracking speeds for rule-making and monitoring purposes; and financial and industry analysts who use the data to help formulate reports on the state of the companies and the industry.
“Our goal is to get brought in as a global standard for network experience or connectivity,” Gill said.
This is no small thing: for years carriers and those whose job it is to stand objectively and check that they work as they are supposed to, have relied on the carriers’ own diagnostics to track speeds, but as anyone who has been saddled with a slow network that claims to be fast knows, the traditional model is a flawed one.
This is also relevant to where OpenSignal wants to develop as a business. Going forward, OpenSignal will continue to provide the services it already does, but, as I see it, the bigger opportunity is for the startup to eventually tap into the wider growth of the Internet of Things.
We now have sensors in millions of objects, and providing the right algorithms to “read” the data from those sensors can help all kinds of systems — especially those that have been tracked in less accurate ways — work more efficiently, be they traffic networks, or a factory running smoothly.
“We now have a lot of data and we see this round as helping us build out more analytics on top of the data,” said Gill. “We are building a team to take that data and interpret it. Real world experience metrics matter.”
On the front of data privacy and user consent on how data is used — two big areas that will very soon become mandatory considerations for all companies that want to do business in Europe — Gill said that OpenSignal is getting this by way of agreements between users and the apps that are OpenSignal’s data partners. Users are able to opt out of apps picking up and sending data when they are not being used, and he said that there is information contained in those app’s terms that will make clear that some of the phone sensor data would be used by the apps’ partners for diagnostics (which is what would cover OpenSignal).
“The good thing for us is that we’ve taken a strong stance on privacy,” said Gill. “Although we could collect more personal data if we wanted, we limit it. We don’t know who our users are, and we don’t share anything with third parties or tracking organizations. We are quite firm about how it’s used.”