The SA Weather Service forecasts heavy rain that could lead to localised flooding in the north-eastern parts of the country is expected to continue into the weekend.  
Australia's Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton gives opening remarks for the Counter Terrorism Conference at the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. (Rick Rycroft, AP)
Sydney - A senior Australian minister vowed on Thursday to press on with a plan to bring white South African farmers to Australia, hitting out at criticism from "crazy lefties" who he said were "dead to me".
Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton sparked uproar last week by singling out the farmers' need to flee "horrific circumstances" for a "civilised country".
READ: Australian home affairs minister to consider fast-tracking visas for white South African farmers
He is examining whether they deserve "special attention" for acceptance on refugee or humanitarian grounds, which led to South Africa hauling in Australia's envoy to Pretoria for a dressing down and a demand that he retract the comments.
It also set off claims at home that Dutton was a racist amid fears that it signalled a return to the "White Australia" policy, referring to laws in place for seven decades from 1901 that prevented non-white immigrants settling Down Under.
Dutton, who has drawn criticism in the past for cracking down on asylum-seekers from Asia and the Middle East, is unfazed.
"It concerns me that people are being persecuted at the moment - that's the reality - the numbers of people dying or being savagely attacked in South Africa is a reality," he told 2GB commercial radio.
"We're looking at ways we can help people to migrate to Australia if they're finding themselves in that situation."
He said the backlash "meant nothing to me", while attacking several media outlets for their coverage.
"Some of the crazy lefties at the ABC, and on The Guardian, Huffington Post, can express concern and draw mean cartoons about me and all the rest of it," he said.
According to police, 74 farmers were murdered between 2016 and 2017 in SA, which has one of the world's highest crime rates.
Dutton made his initial offer in response to Pretoria's vow to enact land "expropriation without compensation" to redress land confiscations of the colonial and apartheid era.
"If people think I'm going to cower or take a backward step because of their nonsense, fabricated, fake news criticism, then they've got another thing coming," he added.
Try a bespoke farm dating back to the 1930s in the Magalies, Limpopo's lavish bushveld offers or even a contemporary escape along the Garden Route!


This username must be unique, cannot be edited and will be used in the URL to your profile page across the entire 24.com network.


                            News24 allows you to edit the display of certain components based on a location.

                            If you wish to personalise the page based on your preferences, please select a

                            location for each component and click "Submit" in order for the changes to

                            take affect.


                        Join the News24 Community to be involved in breaking the news.

                    


                        Log in with Facebook to comment and personalise news, weather and listings.

                    