Silicon Valley could help the last people you'd expect — and Elon Musk has given $15 million to a contest that will prove it
Diamandis believes that rapid technological progress
    will benefit everyone over the next few decades, not just the
    top of the upper class.

  One of the greatest insights Peter Diamandis ever had was that
  one of the best ways to inspire people to create societal
  progress is through a contest with a cash prize.

Peter Diamandis believes
  that competition among entrepreneurs is one of the most efficient
  ways to solve society's biggest challenges.

  It was 1993 and he was reading Charles A. Lindbergh's
  autobiography "The Spirit of St. Louis" during a visit to his
  parents' house. He learned that Lindbergh was motivated to become
  the first aviator to cross the Atlantic by a $25,000
  prize. "And Lindbergh, the most unlikely guy, pulls it off
  and becomes massively famous — and opens up aviation, more
  importantly," Diamandis said.


  It inspired him to set out on a journey to inspire a similar path
  to launching the first private manned flight into space, a feat
  he saw realized in 2004. Since then, the XPRIZE Foundation has
  had seven successful contests and eight current ones, inspiring
  several businesses to tackle "moonshots" that companies would
  otherwise find too risky to be worth the attempt.


  SpaceX and Tesla CEO Elon Musk has been funding one of the
  current contests, the $15 million Global Learning XPRIZE, since
  2014, and its winner will be announced in April 2019. Diamandis
  explained to us that it is an ideal example of how the private
  sector can tackle some of the world's greatest challenges, like
  the prize's goal of finding an elegantly simple and
  cost-effective way of wiping out illiteracy, a condition that
  Musk called "the wellspring of poverty." 


  In 2014, 700 teams submitted their plans for developing Android
  applications for tablets that could provide children living in
  extreme poverty with clear lessons on how to read, write, and do
  basic math. The XPRIZE team selected five semifinalists and gave
  them each $1 million to pursue their plan and test it in
  communities in Tanzania. Google provided 800 tablets for the
  initiative.

Musk's XPRIZE competition
  is for developing learning software for children living in
  extreme poverty in Tanzania.

  The winner will win $10 million to scale its program, and all
  semifinalists will be open sourced, available to any developers
  who want to build off them. XPRIZE has stated that it intends to
  help the winner reach 250 million children around the world with
  its winning software.


  "So when I speak about this, I talk about, we're going from a
  world of have and have-nots, to a world of haves — and yes,
  there'll be super-haves," Diamandis said. "But I believe we're
  heading toward a world where every man, woman, and child will
  have access to the best education, the best healthcare, water,
  food, energy."


  He said the predicted commercialization of what he and Musk are
  doing with the Global Learning XPRIZE will be more beneficial
  than pure charity, in a way. "These devices, these tablets, will
  eventually be free. Because someone will want their data, or will
  want you to buy on their Amazon device," he said.

One of tech's most prolific entrepreneurs reveals how he and Elon Musk are trying to eliminate illiteracy, and why he thinks human placentas may hold a key toward 'an indefinite human life span'
Silicon Valley could help the last people you'd expect — and Elon Musk has given $15 million to a contest that will prove it
Silicon Valley could help the last people you'd expect — and Elon Musk has given $15 million to a contest that will prove it
Silicon Valley could help the last people you'd expect — and Elon Musk has given $15 million to a contest that will prove it