
Drugs to vaccinate over-50s against Alzheimer’s could be here in a decade...with a £ 9bn price tag

New analysis commissioned by Alzheimer’s Research UK found that drugs to halt, slow or reverse the disease could be available in as little as three years with major vaccine and screening programmes possible within a decade.
But dementia experts warned that demand from patients would be ‘instant and huge’ and called on the NHS to act now to make sure funds were in place for when the breakthroughs occurred.
"While our report highlights a number of challenges that could affect the roll-out of future dementia treatments in the NHS, we believe these challenges can be overcome if we act now and work together."
The charity commissioned experts at the London School of Economics to model the impact of five hypothetical Alzheimer's treatments.
Most of the clinical trials involve drugs which target sticky clumps of beta-amyloid, which accumulate in the brain and stop neurons from communicating.
Several vaccine-like treatments - which work more like a ‘statin for the brain’ than a traditional jab - are currently at an earlier stage of development, undergoing Phase I and II trials, said the experts.
"Our patients are desperate for new treatments. When the media reports any hint of a new treatment for Alzheimer's disease our clinics are inundated.
“When we have a successful trial, and I say when, this will be headline news around the world and the demand will be instant and huge."
Dr David Reynolds, chief scientific officer at Alzheimer's Research UK, said: "It wouldn't be an overnight scenario where everybody at 50 had a treatment like this, but that is where we're going to, I hope, in the long term."
The report said effective vaccine delaying onset of the disease for at least three years would be expected to wipe £12.7 billion off the total £26 billion per year that dementia costs the UK economy.
Care Minister Caroline Dinenage added: “This report shows the scale of the challenge dementia presents not only to individuals but to wider society - something the government has never shied away from.”
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.