Committee calls on government to commit to next round of EU funding for science and clarify immigration policy
The House of Commons science and technology select committee is concerned that the UK has not yet committed itself to the next round of EU funding which will start accepting bids for research finance in the next few weeks. 
“It is crucial that the government acts swiftly. If it fails to do so both sides could suffer considerably as a result,” said Liberal Democrat MP Norman Lamb, chairman of the committee.
MPs say a deal needs to be in place for continued participation in the EU funding programme by October at the latest.
The UK has the option of paying into the EU’s science research funding as an associate member like other non-EU members including Switzerland and Norway, but the committee said it was concerned that the government had “openly avoided” committing to the EU’s next round of funding for science research, Framework Programme 9.
It is the successor to Horizon 2020, the EU’s seven-year flagship research programme which has spent around €80bn (£70bn) since 2013.
MPs noted a number of ministers had made speeches reaffirming the importance of science to the country, but there had been no follow up through action.
“With just one year remaining until Brexit, and a commonly-accepted aim of reaching a comprehensive Brexit deal by this autumn, the time for setting out broad aspirations has passed,” said the cross-party committee. More clarity was urgently needed to avoid “unfortunate” results.
“It cannot be taken for granted that the UK will retain its status as a science superpower,” said the report.
MPs also want clarity on immigration policies post-Brexit in order to continue attracting talent to British universities and businesses at the heart of research. 
Jacob Rees-Mogg distances himself from a box full of smelly haddock as Farage’s bid to hijack another political stunt deflates
Thirteen Conservatives and one DUP MP condemn failure to end common fisheries policy as soon as UK formally leaves EU