This site uses cookies to enhance your reading experience. By using this site, you consent to our use of cookies.
Axios PM: Trump's congrats for Putin — Cambridge Analytica CEO suspended — The Facebook meeting — Black Panther sets Twitter record
https://www.axios.com/palestinian-president-calls-us-ambassador-son-of-a-dog-1521496452-b9394f63-1d55-4b54-be6c-e8002a54c550.html
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas personally attacked U.S. ambassador to Israel David Friedman today, calling him a "son of a dog" during a speech at his Fatah party meeting. The U.S. State Department has condemned his rhetoric as "outrageous and unhelpful."
Abbas's rant against the Trump administration also shows that all efforts made by the White House through Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and other Arab countries to reduce tensions with Abbas and convince him to resume talks with the U.S. have failed. 
It was also further proof that he has decided to set a collision course with the Trump administration and refuse to engage with Trump's peace plan.
Friedman, who is the most hard line member of the Trump "peace team", criticized the Palestinian leadership publicly several times in the last few months. Several hours before Abbas's attack, Friedman wrote on his twitter account that the Palestinian leadership has refrained from condemning the latest terror attacks against Israelis.
"President Abbas’s comments were outrageous and unhelpful.  We urge the Palestinian Authority to focus its efforts on improving the lives of the Palestinian people and advancing the cause of peace.  The Administration remains fully committed to those goals."
"The time has come for President Abbas to choose between hateful rhetoric and concrete and practical efforts to improve the quality of life of his people and lead them to peace and prosperity. Notwithstanding his highly inappropriate insults against members of the Trump administration, the latest iteration being his insult of my good friend and colleague Ambassador Friedman, we are committed to the Palestinian people and to the changes that must be implemented for peaceful coexistence. We are finalizing our plan for peace and we will advance it when circumstances are right."
https://www.axios.com/report-kaspersky-exposed-a-counterterrorism-spy-operation-60e52e90-1437-46f2-af37-f1df92c72290.html
The officials told CyberScoop the exposure may put soldiers’ lives at risk, could ruin the surveillance program and risk intel-gathering.
https://www.axios.com/russia-venezuela-cryptocurrency-dodge-donald-trump-sanctions--3df45eae-a266-4ae4-895c-a44ded4e928c.html
TIME also reports that Maduro’s Russian advisers, Denis Druzhkov and Fyodor Bogorodsky, who both have major ties to Russian banks and billionaires, were at the launch of the digital currency last month.
The Russian government denied TIME's report, with the Finance Ministry saying none of Russia's financial authorities were involved in the petro's creation. Venezuelan officials did not respond to a request for comment. 