Former South Korean president Lee Myung Bak (centre) leaving his home to be transferred to a detention centre in Seoul, on early March 23, 2018.
Former South Korean president Lee Myung Bak gestures as he gets into a car to be transferred to a detention centre in Seoul, on early March 23, 2018.
A car carrying former South Korean president Lee Myung Bak is seen outside his home as he is transferred to a detention centre, on early March 23, 2018.
Ex-President Lee Myung Bak is being investigated for multiple cases of bribery amounting to millions of dollars.


SEOUL (AFP) - Former South Korean president Lee Myung Bak was on Thursday (March 22) arrested over corruption, the last of the country's four living ex-leaders to be embroiled in a criminal inquiry.
The 76-year-old business CEO-turned-president - who served from 2008 to 2013 - faces multiple charges including bribery, power abuse, embezzlement, and tax evasion.
Live TV footages showed Lee, wearing a dark coat with a tie, emerge from his house, shake hands with his former aides and get into a car with darkened windows.
Afterwards, the car and a convoy led by police motorbikes were seen entering the Seoul Eastern Detention Centre.
"I don't blame others. All are my faults and I feel remorse", Lee said in a hand-written statement, a photograph of which was posted on his Facebook account.
"With my arrest, I just hope the suffering faced by my family members and those who worked with ease somewhat," he said.
Lee, who denies most of the charges against him, will receive a brief health check before changing into a prison garb with an inmate number and sleeping in an 11-square metre solitary cell, Yonhap news agency said.
"It is acknowledged that many of the charges are backed by evidence... and there are risks of the accused seeking to destroy evidence", it said in a statement explaining the need for his arrest.
South Korean presidents have a tendency to end up in prison - or meet untimely ends - after their time in power, usually once their political rivals have moved into the presidential Blue House.
All four former South Korean presidents who are still alive have been convicted, charged or investigated for criminal offences.
Conservative Lee's successor Park Geun Hye was ousted last year over a massive corruption scandal that emerged in 2016, and the verdict in her bribery and abuse of power trial is due next month, with prosecutors demanding 30 years in jail.
Chun Doo Hwan and Roh Tae Woo, former army generals who served through the 1980s to early 1990s, served jail terms in the 1990s for corruption and treason after leaving office.
Prosecutors said Lee's crimes are "almost as serious as" those committed by Park, who is in custody at a different detention centre.
Lee has been charged with accepting a total of some 11 billion won (S$13.4 million) in bribes between late 2007 when he was elected president and 2012, according to prosecutors' documents.
These allegations include claims that the Samsung Group bought a presidential pardon in 2009 for its chairman Lee Kun Hee, who had been convicted of tax evasion and given a suspended jail sentence.
Samsung allegedly paid 6 billion won in legal fees to a US law firm in instalments between 2007 and 2011 on Lee's behalf.
The US law firm was representing DAS, an autoparts company Lee allegedly owns under the names of his relatives.
DAS was at that time in a court battle against a US businessman in order to be paid back 14 billion won the company had invested in his bankrupt investment company.
The 11 billion won in bribes also include 1.7 billion won of secret funds from the country's spy agency Lee allegedly pocked and 3.5 billion won Lee reportedly accepted from five different people.
They include a former CEO of a state-financed banking group who handed Lee 2.2 billion won for helping him assume the post and an ex-lawmaker who reportedly gave Lee 400 million won in return for a nomination ticket in parliamentary elections, with a Buddhist monk and two businessmen offering the remaining 900 million won in return for policy favours.
Separately, prosecutors claim Lee embezzled 35 billion won from DAS over 12 years between 1994 and 2006.
Lee denied owning DAS under questioning last week, dismissing what prosecutors say are "incriminating" documents and testimony from Lee's relatives and aides as "fabrications".
SPH Digital News / Copyright © 2018 Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. Co. Regn. No. 198402868E. All rights reserved 
We have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused. Until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access ST Digital articles. But a log-in is still required for our PDFs.