EU president Jean-Claude Juncker congratulates Putin on re-election and calls for positive relations with Russia
European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker has wished Vladimir Putin “every success” and congratulated him on his re-election, breaking ranks as other countries call for answers following the Salisbury poisoning.
In a letter to the Russian president Mr Juncker said he had always argued that “positive relations between the European Union and the Russian Federation are crucial to the security of our continent”.
The EU chief’s warm message comes a day after EU leaders at the European Council called on Russia to hand over details of its alleged nerve agent programme to help with the investigation into the poisoning of Sergei and Yulia Skripal, which the British government says it is certain Russia was behind. 
The European Foreign Affairs Council, all 28 EU foreign ministers, issued a joint statement on Monday that said the “European Union takes extremely seriously the UK Government’s assessment that it is highly likely that the Russian Federation is responsible” for the attack.
But the statement stopped short of explicitly blaming Russia or saying that it agreed with the UK’s assessment. Russia denies any involvement and says claims it carried out the attack are “slanderous, groundless, and difficult to explain”.
Mr Juncker’s letter to Mr Putin did not mention the Salisbury incident. “Excellency, Mr President,” the Commission President wrote. “I wish to convey my congratulations on your re-election as President of the Russian Federation.
“I have always argued that positive relations between the European Union and the Russian Federation are crucial to the security of our continent. Our common objective should be to re-establish a cooperative pan-European security order.
“I hope that you will use your fourth term in office to pursue this goal. I will always be a partner in this endeavour. I wish you every success in carrying out your high responsibilities. Yours sincerely, Jean-Claude Juncker.” 
The EU institutions did not appear united on the issue, however. When asked whether Donald Tusk, European Council leader, would be sending a similar letter, a senior EU source said: “As far as I know president Tusk hasn’t sent such a letter until now. I would not be surprised if he would not send it at all.”
"This is a disgraceful letter from Jean-Claude Juncker.  To congratulate Vladimir Putin on his election victory without referring to the clear ballot rigging that took place is bad enough. But his failure to mention Russian's responsibility for a military nerve agent attack on innocent people in my constituency is nauseating.
Investigators in protective clothing remove a van from an address in Winterslow near Salisbury in Wiltshire, as police and members of the armed forces continue to investigate the suspected nerve agent attack on Russian double agent Sergei Skripa
A police officer on duty near the protective tent which covers the bench where a man and woman were apparently poisoned with what was later identified as a nerve agent, in Salisbury
Personnel in protective coveralls and breathing equipment cover an ambulance with a tarpaulin at the Salisbury District Hospital
Members of the emergency services in hazard suits fix the tent over the bench where Sergei and Yulia Skripal were found
Detective Sergeant Nick Bailey, who assisted the Russian ex-spy targeted with a nerve agent, was also hospitalised
Sergei Skripal speaks to his lawyer from behind bars seen on a screen of a monitor outside a courtroom in Moscow.
Mr Putin won 76.7 per cent of the vote with turnout of over 67 per cent of the vote. Opposition activists have pointed to irregularities in the voting process, though international observers said the poll was generally conducted efficiently.
The democratic process as a whole was "characterised by restrictions on fundamental freedoms" and "lack of genuine competition", the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe however said.
"The 18 March presidential election in Russia took place in an overly controlled environment, marked by continued pressure on critical voices, while the Central Election Commission (CEC) administered the process efficiently and openly, the international observers concluded in a statement today," the OSCE said in a statement.
"After intense efforts to promote turnout, citizens voted in significant numbers, yet restrictions on the fundamental freedoms, as well as on candidate registration, have limited the space for political engagement and resulted in a lack of genuine competition."
Advertising helps fund our journalism and keep it truly independent. It helps to build our international editorial team, from war correspondents to investigative reporters, commentators to critics.
If you are Private Browsing in Firefox, "Tracking Protection" may cause the adblock notice to show. It can be temporarily disabled by clicking the "shield" icon in the address bar.
Then click the big power button to whitelist the current web site, and its state will be remembered next time you visit the web site.