Space junk is a real problem that could trap humans forever on Earth — so now Australian scientists are working on powerful ground-based lasers to shoot it all away.
EOS Space Systems has been building and developing tracking systems for satellites and space debris at Mount Stromlo in Canberra.
And the company's CEO, Professor Craig Smith, says researchers have developed a photon pressure laser that "is able to nudge space debris objects around, change their orbits."
The first step for scientists would be to use low-powered lasers to detect and follow identified objects in space.
"With the laser tracking systems we track objects and predict collisions to high accuracy," Professor Smith said.
If a piece of space debris then looked like it could have a collision with another piece, then a laser would be used to change its orbit.
"Then we can start moving it enough to what we call 'de-orbit' the satellite by reducing its velocity enough that it starts to change orbit height.
However, Professor Smith said scientists would have to ensure they did not break debris into two, which would then only add to the amount of pieces in orbit.
"The real trouble is you make it harder. If they get smaller they get harder and harder to track, and so they start to become invisible — but also still lethal to satellites."
Space junk might sound innocuous enough, but as the Hollywood film Gravity reminded cinema-goers it can be a killer — especially if you are an astronaut hanging about in space and getting in its way.
Dr Ben Greene, the chairman of the Space Environment Research Centre, said there were "hundreds and thousands of space debris that are a size where they would threaten satellites."
Under the worst-case scenario for space debris, a cascading series of collisions could render the near-Earth orbit a no-go zone for satellites and space craft.
Efforts are underway to make space flight less messy, such as eliminating spent rocket boosters which are currently dumped in space.
But right here in Australia the focus has been on using concentrated light to nudge the space junk out of harm's way.
"It's most likely going to be from Australia, because you need a decent-seized platform to work from and you need good weather. And Australia has both," he said.
ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.
New national security adviser John Bolton has a history of taking hardline positions on foreign policy — here's a snapshot of his views on some hot topics currently facing the White House.
This week we discovered Australians have shocking dental hygiene, artificial intelligence is being used to crack down on jaywalking, and there's another celebrity running for office. Let's see what you can remember.
The AFL's relentless course to national sporting pre-eminence has come at a cost, writes Richard Hinds. But fans still have hope thanks to a couple of fairytale flag wins.
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.