Russia has also said it is closing the British consulate in St Petersburg, restricting the ability of the UK embassy to help visitors in the event of violence.
Johnson said he would be seeking urgent assurances from Russia that it would fulfil its obligations under the World Cup contract to ensure the safety of fans. “I think it is up to the Russians to give us an undertaking that they will be safe,” he said.
Both Russia and England have a history of violent football fans, and the risk of fierce fighting between the two sets of fans appears to be higher given the political tensions. 
The Russian foreign ministry responded to Johnson’s remarks by saying he was “poisoned with venom of hate, unprofessionalism and boorishness”. It said: “It’s scary to remember that this person represents the political leadership of a nuclear power.” 
Johnson was speaking to the all-party foreign affairs select committee and responding to remarks from the Labour MP Ian Austin, who called for England to pull out of the World Cup altogether. “Putin is going to use it in the way Hitler used the 1936 Olympics,” Austin said. 
Johnson replied: “I think that your characterisation of what is going to happen in Moscow, the World Cup, in all the venues – yes, I think the comparison with 1936 is certainly right. It is an emetic prospect of Putin glorying in this sporting event”. 
Austin described Putin as a KGB “thug” who had enriched himself. Johnson said he did not believe Putin had been re-elected in a free and fair election, saying there had been no true competitive choice.
Johnson again rejected Moscow’s assertion that it had nothing to do with the attack on Skripal and his daughter, Yulia, on 4 March. He said: “No matter how exactly it came to be done, the pathway, the chain of responsibility seems to me to go back to the Russian state and those at the top.”
At a televised briefing to Moscow-based diplomats, Vladimir Yermakov, a deputy head of the foreign affairs ministry’s department for non-proliferation, said: “It is not possible to evaluate what happened in Salisbury within the framework of the [chemical weapons] convention and within the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. Deeper expert evaluations will be needed, and in any case we need to conduct our own investigations for Russia to be able to draw any conclusions.”
A sometimes flustered Yermakov was confronted at the briefing by diplomats from the UK, France, the US, Slovakia and Sweden all separately challenging the Russian handling of the case. The British diplomat, Emma Nottingham, accused the Russians of having “a record of state-sponsored assassinations”. 
Yermakov responded: “Aren’t you ashamed of yourself? Pull yourselves away a little bit from your Russophobia and your island mentality.”
EU heads of state will meet on Thursday and express solidarity with the UK over the Skripal attack but will not directly ascribe responsibility to Russia. The EU council president, Donald Tusk, said the EU would agree “to increase our resilience to hybrid threats such as undermining trust in our democracies through fake news or election meddling”. 
Johnson said he had been struck by “the mountain of disgust globally” directed at Russia and claimed the UK had been picked on for standing up to Russia on human rights, Syria and Ukraine. 
Russia for its part suffered “a revanchiste bitter feeling about the way the cold war ended”, leading Putin “to want to cause trouble wherever he can”, he said. 
He said the UK would crack down on Russian oligarchs living in “big schlosses in fashionable districts of London”, so long as there was evidence that their funds had been gained illicitly or corruptly. 
Johnson said he was prepared to investigate whether wealthy Russians were sending money back to Moscow through Russian debt bond auctions. Russia raised $2bn in a debt auction in London last week.