Australian international player Caroline Fairs says the ban on schoolgirl rugby in Tonga is "ludicrous".
Girls will be banned from playing rugby in state-funded schools in Tonga, after a statement was issued by Education Minister Penisimani Fifita.
In his statement, Mr Fifita said he was issuing the ban because it was against Tongan traditions and culture for girls to play rugby.
The backlash against the Government has been explosive, with Australian international player of Tongan descent Caroline Fairs labelling the ban "ludicrous".
The ban came just as the region's governing body, Oceania Rugby, was going out of its way to promote the women's game.
In Fiji's capital, Suva, it was confirmed Oceania regional director of women's rugby Cathy Wong had been appointed to the World Rugby Council.
On the announcement of Ms Wong's appointment, services manager for Oceania Bruce Cook reaffirmed rugby's popularity made it an ideal platform to raise awareness and promote gender equality in the Pacific.
"World Rugby, and in turn Oceania Rugby, is committed to be a global leader in sport where women have equal opportunities in all areas."
Fairs said the latest move by the Education Minister had sent the development of the sport in Tonga into reverse.
"Look at Fijiana, look at PNG, they are doing so well for themselves, and we're developing and we've done really well at previous Pacific Games," she said.
"But just to go backwards and not have our young high school students playing, I mean where else are they going to build that skill level in order to compete at the highest level?"
Tongan women's rights activist Ofa Guttenbiel Likiliki also criticised the rugby ban, which she said was a reflection of Prime Minister Akilisi Pohiva's own views, rather than those of the majority of Tongans.
"He doesn't support young girls playing rugby, because it's his personal view that it takes away the dignity of girls who play it because in his view it's a male sport," Ms Likiliki said.
"I think there should be an opportunity for them to speak, not just the parents, but the students themselves."
News of the ban has made its way around the world, with New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern the latest to express concern, saying all young women should be allowed to play whatever sport they choose.
"Taking away rugby only takes away their mateship, their sense of belonging within the team," the Wallaroo said.
"There are so many women who play rugby at the moment, whether its rugby league or rugby union or any kind of sport, who are just outraged that such a decision has been made.
"Hopefully the Government and the Minister will listen to the public and see that these young women are upset. Hopefully it can be reinstated."
Pacific Beat made several requests for an interview with the Education Minister to clarify his policy, but were yet to receive a response.
ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.
New national security adviser John Bolton has a history of taking hardline positions on foreign policy — here's a snapshot of his views on some hot topics currently facing the White House.
This week we discovered Australians have shocking dental hygiene, artificial intelligence is being used to crack down on jaywalking, and there's another celebrity running for office. Let's see what you can remember.
The AFL's relentless course to national sporting pre-eminence has come at a cost, writes Richard Hinds. But fans still have hope thanks to a couple of fairytale flag wins.
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.