
A police notice on boards surrounding a restaurant in Salisbury visited by Russian former spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter before their collapse on 4 March.
Photograph: Peter Nicholls/Reuters

The EU called on Russia “to address urgently the questions raised by the UK and the international community and to provide immediate, full and complete disclosure of its novichok programme to the OPCW. The use of chemical weapons by anyone under any circumstances is completely unacceptable and constitutes a security threat to us all.” 
The EU statement came as Russia demanded proof it was behind the Salisbury attack. “Sooner or later these unsubstantiated allegations will have to be answered for: either backed up with the appropriate evidence or apologised for,” Vladimir Putin’s spokesman said on Monday.
Boris Johnson welcomed the EU’s “unqualified solidarity”, having condemned Moscow’s “increasingly absurd” denials, citing its contradictory claims about Russian production of novichok.
“What people can see is that this is a classic Russian strategy of trying to conceal the needle of truth in a haystack of lies and obfuscation.”
Theresa May and EU leaders are expected to discuss the attack at a summit in Brussels on Thursday night.
Spain’s Alfonso Dastis said: “We think now the time is for an extended examination of all the elements involved, with the participation of the OPCW.” Belgium’s foreign minister, Didier Reynders, said it was necessary to put pressure on Russia to take part in a proper inquiry.
Meanwhile, the Swedish foreign minister dismissed Russian claims that Sweden was the source of the nerve agent as “ridiculous and totally unfounded”. Margot Wallström said Russia was “trying to make some kind of diversion from the real issues”.
Dmitry Peskov said: “I wouldn’t use the phrase ‘exacerbation of tensions with the west’. It’s a question of this stream of slander, that is hard to explain and difficult to understand the motivation for, from the British side towards Russia.”
Speaking to Emmanuel Macron by phone, Putin said the allegations were unsubstantiated. In a statement on Putin’s return to the Kremlin, the French president avoided congratulating his Russian counterpart directly. Instead, Macron wished success to the Russian people in the modernisation of politics, democracy, as well as economic and social fronts. 